# Amos 2

[[Am-01|← Amos 01]] | [[Amos]] | [[Am-03|Amos 03 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh says: "For three transgressions of Moab, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime; 

###### v2 
but I will send a fire on Moab, and it will devour the palaces of Kerioth; and Moab will die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet; 

###### v3 
and I will cut off the judge from among them, and will kill all its princes with him," says Yahweh. 

###### v4 
Yahweh says: "For three transgressions of Judah, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; because they have rejected Yahweh's law, and have not kept his statutes, and their lies have led them astray, after which their fathers walked; 

###### v5 
but I will send a fire on Judah, and it will devour the palaces of Jerusalem." 

###### v6 
Yahweh says: "For three transgressions of Israel, yes, for four, I will not turn away its punishment; because they have sold the righteous for silver, and the needy for a pair of sandals; 

###### v7 
They trample on the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and deny justice to the oppressed; and a man and his father use the same maiden, to profane my holy name; 

###### v8 
and they lay themselves down beside every altar on clothes taken in pledge; and in the house of their God they drink the wine of those who have been fined. 

###### v9 
Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath. 

###### v10 
Also I brought you up out of the land of Egypt, and led you forty years in the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite. 

###### v11 
I raised up some of your sons for prophets, and some of your young men for Nazirites. Isn't this true, you children of Israel?" says Yahweh. 

###### v12 
"But you gave the Nazirites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, 'Don't prophesy!' 

###### v13 
Behold, I will crush you in your place, as a cart crushes that is full of grain. 

###### v14 
Flight will perish from the swift; and the strong won't strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself; 

###### v15 
neither shall he stand who handles the bow; and he who is swift of foot won't escape; neither shall he who rides the horse deliver himself; 

###### v16 
and he who is courageous among the mighty will flee away naked on that day," says Yahweh.

***
[[Am-01|← Amos 01]] | [[Amos]] | [[Am-03|Amos 03 →]]
