# 2 Timothy 3

[[2 Tim-02|← 2 Timothy 02]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2 Tim-04|2 Timothy 04 →]]
***



###### v1 
But know this: that in the last days, grievous times will come. 

###### v2 
For men will be lovers of self, lovers of money, boastful, arrogant, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, 

###### v3 
without natural affection, unforgiving, slanderers, without self-control, fierce, not lovers of good, 

###### v4 
traitors, headstrong, conceited, lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God, 

###### v5 
holding a form of godliness, but having denied its power. Turn away from these, also. 

###### v6 
For some of these are people who creep into houses and take captive gullible women loaded down with sins, led away by various lusts, 

###### v7 
always learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. 

###### v8 
Even as Jannes and Jambres opposed Moses, so these also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind, who concerning the faith are rejected. 

###### v9 
But they will proceed no further. For their folly will be evident to all men, as theirs also came to be. 

###### v10 
But you followed my teaching, conduct, purpose, faith, patience, love, steadfastness, 

###### v11 
persecutions, and sufferings: those things that happened to me at Antioch, Iconium, and Lystra. I endured those persecutions. The Lord delivered me out of them all. 

###### v12 
Yes, and all who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. 

###### v13 
But evil men and impostors will grow worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. 

###### v14 
But you remain in the things which you have learned and have been assured of, knowing from whom you have learned them. 

###### v15 
From infancy, you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make you wise for salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. 

###### v16 
Every Scripture is God-breathed and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for instruction in righteousness, 

###### v17 
that each person who belongs to God may be complete, thoroughly equipped for every good work.

***
[[2 Tim-02|← 2 Timothy 02]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2 Tim-04|2 Timothy 04 →]]
