# 2 Timothy 4

[[2 Tim-03|← 2 Timothy 03]] | [[2 Timothy]]
***



###### v1 
I command you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his Kingdom: 

###### v2 
preach the word; be urgent in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort with all patience and teaching. 

###### v3 
For the time will come when they will not listen to the sound doctrine, but having itching ears, will heap up for themselves teachers after their own lusts, 

###### v4 
and will turn away their ears from the truth, and turn away to fables. 

###### v5 
But you be sober in all things, suffer hardship, do the work of an evangelist, and fulfill your ministry. 

###### v6 
For I am already being offered, and the time of my departure has come. 

###### v7 
I have fought the good fight. I have finished the course. I have kept the faith. 

###### v8 
From now on, the crown of righteousness is stored up for me, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all those who have loved his appearing. 

###### v9 
Be diligent to come to me soon, 

###### v10 
for Demas left me, having loved this present world, and went to Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia; and Titus to Dalmatia. 

###### v11 
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for service. 

###### v12 
But I sent Tychicus to Ephesus. 

###### v13 
Bring the cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus when you come, and the books, especially the parchments. 

###### v14 
Alexander, the coppersmith, did much evil to me. The Lord will repay him according to his deeds, 

###### v15 
of whom you also must beware; for he greatly opposed our words. 

###### v16 
At my first defense, no one came to help me, but all left me. May it not be held against them. 

###### v17 
But the Lord stood by me and strengthened me, that through me the message might be fully proclaimed, and that all the Gentiles might hear. So I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion. 

###### v18 
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. 

###### v19 
Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the house of Onesiphorus. 

###### v20 
Erastus remained at Corinth, but I left Trophimus at Miletus sick. 

###### v21 
Be diligent to come before winter. Eubulus salutes you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brothers. 

###### v22 
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.

***
[[2 Tim-03|← 2 Timothy 03]] | [[2 Timothy]]
