# 2 Timothy 2

[[2 Tim-01|← 2 Timothy 01]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2 Tim-03|2 Timothy 03 →]]
***



###### v1 
You therefore, my child, be strengthened in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. 

###### v2 
The things which you have heard from me among many witnesses, commit the same things to faithful men, who will be able to teach others also. 

###### v3 
You therefore must endure hardship as a good soldier of Christ Jesus. 

###### v4 
No soldier on duty entangles himself in the affairs of life, that he may please him who enrolled him as a soldier. 

###### v5 
Also, if anyone competes in athletics, he isn't crowned unless he has competed by the rules. 

###### v6 
The farmer who labors must be the first to get a share of the crops. 

###### v7 
Consider what I say, and may the Lord give you understanding in all things. 

###### v8 
Remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, of the offspring of David, according to my Good News, 

###### v9 
in which I suffer hardship to the point of chains as a criminal. But God's word isn't chained. 

###### v10 
Therefore I endure all things for the chosen ones' sake, that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. 

###### v11 
This saying is trustworthy: "For if we died with him, we will also live with him. 

###### v12 
If we endure, we will also reign with him. If we deny him, he also will deny us. 

###### v13 
If we are faithless, he remains faithful; for he can't deny himself." 

###### v14 
Remind them of these things, charging them in the sight of the Lord, that they don't argue about words, to no profit, to the subverting of those who hear. 

###### v15 
Give diligence to present yourself approved by God, a workman who doesn't need to be ashamed, properly handling the Word of Truth. 

###### v16 
But shun empty chatter, for it will go further in ungodliness, 

###### v17 
and those words will consume like gangrene, of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus: 

###### v18 
men who have erred concerning the truth, saying that the resurrection is already past, and overthrowing the faith of some. 

###### v19 
However God's firm foundation stands, having this seal, "The Lord knows those who are his," and, "Let every one who names the name of the Lord depart from unrighteousness." 

###### v20 
Now in a large house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of clay. Some are for honor, and some for dishonor. 

###### v21 
If anyone therefore purges himself from these, he will be a vessel for honor, sanctified, and suitable for the master's use, prepared for every good work. 

###### v22 
Flee from youthful lusts; but pursue righteousness, faith, love, and peace with those who call on the Lord out of a pure heart. 

###### v23 
But refuse foolish and ignorant questionings, knowing that they generate strife. 

###### v24 
The Lord's servant must not quarrel, but be gentle toward all, able to teach, patient, 

###### v25 
in gentleness correcting those who oppose him: perhaps God may give them repentance leading to a full knowledge of the truth, 

###### v26 
and they may recover themselves out of the devil's snare, having been taken captive by him to his will.

***
[[2 Tim-01|← 2 Timothy 01]] | [[2 Timothy]] | [[2 Tim-03|2 Timothy 03 →]]
