## Packages and Crates


The first parts of the module system we’ll cover are packages and crates. A crate is a binary or library. The _crate root_ is a source file that the Rust compiler starts from and makes up the root module of your crate (we’ll explain modules in depth in the [[7.2. Defining Modules to Control Scope and Privacy]] section). A _package_ is one or more crates that provide a set of functionality. A package contains a _Cargo.toml_ file that describes how to build those crates.

Several rules determine what a package can contain. A package can contain at most one library crate. It can contain as many binary crates as you’d like, but it must contain at least one crate (either library or binary).

Let’s walk through what happens when we create a package. First, we enter the command `cargo new`:

``$ cargo new my-project
     Created binary (application) `my-project` package
$ ls my-project
Cargo.toml
src
$ ls my-project/src
main.rs`` 

When we entered the command, Cargo created a _Cargo.toml_ file, giving us a package. Looking at the contents of _Cargo.toml_, there’s no mention of _src/main.rs_ because Cargo follows a convention that _src/main.rs_ is the crate root of a binary crate with the same name as the package. Likewise, Cargo knows that if the package directory contains _src/lib.rs_, the package contains a library crate with the same name as the package, and _src/lib.rs_ is its crate root. Cargo passes the crate root files to `rustc` to build the library or binary.

Here, we have a package that only contains _src/main.rs_, meaning it only contains a binary crate named `my-project`. If a package contains _src/main.rs_ and _src/lib.rs_, it has two crates: a binary and a library, both with the same name as the package. A package can have multiple binary crates by placing files in the _src/bin_ directory: each file will be a separate binary crate.

A crate will group related functionality together in a scope so the functionality is easy to share between multiple projects. For example, the `rand` crate we used in [[2. Programming a Guessing Game]] provides functionality that generates random numbers. We can use that functionality in our own projects by bringing the `rand` crate into our project’s scope. All the functionality provided by the `rand` crate is accessible through the crate’s name, `rand`.

Keeping a crate’s functionality in its own scope clarifies whether particular functionality is defined in our crate or the `rand` crate and prevents potential conflicts. For example, the `rand` crate provides a trait named `Rng`. We can also define a `struct` named `Rng` in our own crate. Because a crate’s functionality is namespaced in its own scope, when we add `rand` as a dependency, the compiler isn’t confused about what the name `Rng` refers to. In our crate, it refers to the `struct Rng` that we defined. We would access the `Rng` trait from the `rand` crate as `rand::Rng`.

Let’s move on and talk about the module system!