# 2 Samuel 8

[[2 Sam-07|← 2 Samuel 07]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2 Sam-09|2 Samuel 09 →]]
***



###### v1 
After this, David struck the Philistines and subdued them; and David took the bridle of the mother city out of the hand of the Philistines. 

###### v2 
He struck Moab, and measured them with the line, making them to lie down on the ground; and he measured two lines to put to death, and one full line to keep alive. The Moabites became servants to David, and brought tribute. 

###### v3 
David also struck Hadadezer the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his dominion at the River. 

###### v4 
David took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand footmen. David hamstrung all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for one hundred chariots. 

###### v5 
When the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadadezer king of Zobah, David struck twenty two thousand men of the Syrians. 

###### v6 
Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus; and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought tribute. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 

###### v7 
David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem. 

###### v8 
From Betah and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took a great quantity of bronze. 

###### v9 
When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had struck all the army of Hadadezer, 

###### v10 
then Toi sent Joram his son to king David, to greet him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer and struck him; for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. Joram brought with him vessels of silver, vessels of gold, and vessels of bronze. 

###### v11 
King David also dedicated these to Yahweh, with the silver and gold that he dedicated of all the nations which he subdued; 

###### v12 
of Syria, of Moab, of the children of Ammon, of the Philistines, of Amalek, and of the plunder of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah. 

###### v13 
David earned a reputation when he returned from striking down eighteen thousand men of the Syrians in the Valley of Salt. 

###### v14 
He put garrisons in Edom. Throughout all Edom, he put garrisons, and all the Edomites became servants to David. Yahweh gave victory to David wherever he went. 

###### v15 
David reigned over all Israel; and David executed justice and righteousness for all his people. 

###### v16 
Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the army, Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder, 

###### v17 
Zadok the son of Ahitub and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar were priests, Seraiah was scribe, 

###### v18 
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were chief ministers.

***
[[2 Sam-07|← 2 Samuel 07]] | [[2 Samuel]] | [[2 Sam-09|2 Samuel 09 →]]
