## 7.13. Util-linux-2.37.4

The Util-linux package contains miscellaneous utility programs.

**Approximate build time:**0.7 SBU

**Required disk space:**129 MB

### 7.13.1. Installation of Util-linux

The FHS recommends using the `/var/lib/hwclock` directory instead of the usual `/etc` directory as the location for the `adjtime` file. Create this directory with:

mkdir -pv /var/lib/hwclock

Prepare Util-linux for compilation:

./configure ADJTIME_PATH=/var/lib/hwclock/adjtime    \
            --libdir=/usr/lib    \
            --docdir=/usr/share/doc/util-linux-2.37.4 \
            --disable-chfn-chsh  \
            --disable-login      \
            --disable-nologin    \
            --disable-su         \
            --disable-setpriv    \
            --disable-runuser    \
            --disable-pylibmount \
            --disable-static     \
            --without-python     \
            runstatedir=/run

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`ADJTIME_PATH=/var/lib/hwclock/adjtime`_

This sets the location of the file recording information about the hardware clock in accordance to the FHS. This is not stricly needed for this temporary tool, but it prevents creating a file at another location, which would not be overwritten or removed when building the final util-linux package.

_`--libdir=/usr/lib`_

This switch ensures the `.so` symlinks targeting the shared library file in the same directory (`/usr/lib`) directly.

_`--disable-*`_

These switches prevent warnings about building components that require packages not in LFS or not installed yet.

_`--without-python`_

This switch disables using Python. It avoids trying to build unneeded bindings.

_`runstatedir=/run`_

This switch sets the location of the socket used by **uuidd** and `libuuid` correctly.

Compile the package:

make

Install the package:

make install

Details on this package are located in [Section 8.72.2, “Contents of Util-linux.”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-utillinux "8.72.2. Contents of Util-linux")