## 7.4. Entering the Chroot Environment

Now that all the packages which are required to build the rest of the needed tools are on the system, it is time to enter the chroot environment to finish installing the remaining temporary tools. This environment will be in use also for installing the final system. As user `root`, run the following command to enter the environment that is, at the moment, populated with only the temporary tools:

chroot "$LFS" /usr/bin/env -i   \
    HOME=/root                  \
    TERM="$TERM"                \
    PS1='(lfs chroot) \u:\w\$ ' \
    PATH=/usr/bin:/usr/sbin     \
    /bin/bash --login

The _`-i`_ option given to the **env** command will clear all variables of the chroot environment. After that, only the `HOME`, `TERM`, `PS1`, and `PATH` variables are set again. The _`TERM=$TERM`_ construct will set the `TERM` variable inside chroot to the same value as outside chroot. This variable is needed for programs like **vim** and **less** to operate properly. If other variables are desired, such as `CFLAGS` or `CXXFLAGS`, this is a good place to set them again.

From this point on, there is no need to use the `LFS` variable anymore because all work will be restricted to the LFS file system. This is because the Bash shell is told that `$LFS` is now the root (`/`) directory.

Notice that `/tools/bin` is not in the `PATH`. This means that the cross toolchain will no longer be used in the chroot environment.

Note that the **bash** prompt will say `I have no name!` This is normal because the `/etc/passwd` file has not been created yet.

### Note

It is important that all the commands throughout the remainder of this chapter and the following chapters are run from within the chroot environment. If you leave this environment for any reason (rebooting for example), ensure that the virtual kernel filesystems are mounted as explained in [Section 7.3.2, “Mounting and Populating /dev”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-bindmount "7.3.2. Mounting and Populating /dev") and [Section 7.3.3, “Mounting Virtual Kernel File Systems”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-kernfsmount "7.3.3. Mounting Virtual Kernel File Systems") and enter chroot again before continuing with the installation.