## 7.7. Libstdc++ from GCC-11.2.0, Pass 2

When building [gcc-pass2](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#ch-tools-gcc-pass2 "6.18. GCC-11.2.0 - Pass 2") we had to defer the installation of the C++ standard library because no suitable compiler was available to compile it. We could not use the compiler built in that section because it is a native compiler and should not be used outside of chroot and risks polluting the libraries with some host components.

**Approximate build time:**0.8 SBU

**Required disk space:**1.1 GB

### 7.7.1. Installation of Target Libstdc++

### Note

Libstdc++ is part of the GCC sources. You should first unpack the GCC tarball and change to the `gcc-11.2.0` directory.

Create a link which exists when building libstdc++ in the gcc tree:

ln -s gthr-posix.h libgcc/gthr-default.h

Create a separate build directory for libstdc++ and enter it:

mkdir -v build
cd       build

Prepare libstdc++ for compilation:

../libstdc++-v3/configure            \
    CXXFLAGS="-g -O2 -D_GNU_SOURCE"  \
    --prefix=/usr                    \
    --disable-multilib               \
    --disable-nls                    \
    --host=$(uname -m)-lfs-linux-gnu \
    --disable-libstdcxx-pch

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`CXXFLAGS="-g -O2 -D_GNU_SOURCE"`_

These flags are passed by the top level Makefile when doing a full build of GCC.

_`--host=$(uname -m)-lfs-linux-gnu`_

We have to mimic what would happen if this package were built as part of a full compiler build. This switch would be passed to configure by GCC's build machinery.

_`--disable-libstdcxx-pch`_

This switch prevents the installation of precompiled include files, which are not needed at this stage.

Compile libstdc++ by running:

make

Install the library:

make install

Details on this package are located in [Section 8.26.2, “Contents of GCC.”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-gcc "8.26.2. Contents of GCC")