# 1 Samuel 8

[[1 Sam-07|← 1 Samuel 07]] | [[1 Samuel]] | [[1 Sam-09|1 Samuel 09 →]]
***



###### v1 
When Samuel was old, he made his sons judges over Israel. 

###### v2 
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second, Abijah. They were judges in Beersheba. 

###### v3 
His sons didn't walk in his ways, but turned away after dishonest gain, took bribes, and perverted justice. 

###### v4 
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel to Ramah. 

###### v5 
They said to him, "Behold, you are old, and your sons don't walk in your ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations." 

###### v6 
But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, "Give us a king to judge us." Samuel prayed to Yahweh. 

###### v7 
Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people in all that they tell you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me as the king over them. 

###### v8 
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even to this day, in that they have forsaken me and served other gods, so they also do to you. 

###### v9 
Now therefore, listen to their voice. However, you shall protest solemnly to them, and shall show them the way of the king who will reign over them." 

###### v10 
Samuel told all Yahweh's words to the people who asked him for a king. 

###### v11 
He said, "This will be the way of the king who shall reign over you: he will take your sons and appoint them as his servants, for his chariots and to be his horsemen; and they will run before his chariots. 

###### v12 
He will appoint them to him for captains of thousands and captains of fifties; and he will assign some to plow his ground and to reap his harvest; and to make his instruments of war and the instruments of his chariots. 

###### v13 
He will take your daughters to be perfumers, to be cooks, and to be bakers. 

###### v14 
He will take your fields, your vineyards, and your olive groves, even your best, and give them to his servants. 

###### v15 
He will take one tenth of your seed and of your vineyards, and give it to his officers and to his servants. 

###### v16 
He will take your male servants, your female servants, your best young men, and your donkeys, and assign them to his own work. 

###### v17 
He will take one tenth of your flocks; and you will be his servants. 

###### v18 
You will cry out in that day because of your king whom you will have chosen for yourselves; and Yahweh will not answer you in that day." 

###### v19 
But the people refused to listen to the voice of Samuel; and they said, "No, but we will have a king over us, 

###### v20 
that we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles." 

###### v21 
Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of Yahweh. 

###### v22 
Yahweh said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice, and make them a king." Samuel said to the men of Israel, "Everyone go to your own city."

***
[[1 Sam-07|← 1 Samuel 07]] | [[1 Samuel]] | [[1 Sam-09|1 Samuel 09 →]]
