# Psalm 7

[[Ps-06|← Psalm 06]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-08|Psalm 08 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, my God, I take refuge in you. Save me from all those who pursue me, and deliver me, 

###### v2 
lest they tear apart my soul like a lion, ripping it in pieces, while there is no one to deliver. 

###### v3 
Yahweh, my God, if I have done this, if there is iniquity in my hands, 

###### v4 
if I have rewarded evil to him who was at peace with me (yes, I have delivered him who without cause was my adversary), 

###### v5 
let the enemy pursue my soul, and overtake it; yes, let him tread my life down to the earth, and lay my glory in the dust. Selah. 

###### v6 
Arise, Yahweh, in your anger. Lift up yourself against the rage of my adversaries. Awake for me. You have commanded judgment. 

###### v7 
Let the congregation of the peoples surround you. Rule over them on high. 

###### v8 
Yahweh administers judgment to the peoples. Judge me, Yahweh, according to my righteousness, and to my integrity that is in me. 

###### v9 
Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end, but establish the righteous; their minds and hearts are searched by the righteous God. 

###### v10 
My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart. 

###### v11 
God is a righteous judge, yes, a God who has indignation every day. 

###### v12 
If a man doesn't repent, he will sharpen his sword; he has bent and strung his bow. 

###### v13 
He has also prepared for himself the instruments of death. He makes ready his flaming arrows. 

###### v14 
Behold, he travails with iniquity. Yes, he has conceived mischief, and brought out falsehood. 

###### v15 
He has dug a hole, and has fallen into the pit which he made. 

###### v16 
The trouble he causes shall return to his own head. His violence shall come down on the crown of his own head. 

###### v17 
I will give thanks to Yahweh according to his righteousness, and will sing praise to the name of Yahweh Most High.

***
[[Ps-06|← Psalm 06]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-08|Psalm 08 →]]
