# Psalm 9

[[Ps-08|← Psalm 08]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-10|Psalm 10 →]]
***



###### v1 
I will give thanks to Yahweh with my whole heart. I will tell of all your marvelous works. 

###### v2 
I will be glad and rejoice in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. 

###### v3 
When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish in your presence. 

###### v4 
For you have maintained my just cause. You sit on the throne judging righteously. 

###### v5 
You have rebuked the nations. You have destroyed the wicked. You have blotted out their name forever and ever. 

###### v6 
The enemy is overtaken by endless ruin. The very memory of the cities which you have overthrown has perished. 

###### v7 
But Yahweh reigns forever. He has prepared his throne for judgment. 

###### v8 
He will judge the world in righteousness. He will administer judgment to the peoples in uprightness. 

###### v9 
Yahweh will also be a high tower for the oppressed; a high tower in times of trouble. 

###### v10 
Those who know your name will put their trust in you, for you, Yahweh, have not forsaken those who seek you. 

###### v11 
Sing praises to Yahweh, who dwells in Zion, and declare among the people what he has done. 

###### v12 
For he who avenges blood remembers them. He doesn't forget the cry of the afflicted. 

###### v13 
Have mercy on me, Yahweh. See my affliction by those who hate me, and lift me up from the gates of death, 

###### v14 
that I may show all of your praise. I will rejoice in your salvation in the gates of the daughter of Zion. 

###### v15 
The nations have sunk down in the pit that they made. In the net which they hid, their own foot is taken. 

###### v16 
Yahweh has made himself known. He has executed judgment. The wicked is snared by the work of his own hands. Meditation. Selah. 

###### v17 
The wicked shall be turned back to Sheol, even all the nations that forget God. 

###### v18 
For the needy shall not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the poor perish forever. 

###### v19 
Arise, Yahweh! Don't let man prevail. Let the nations be judged in your sight. 

###### v20 
Put them in fear, Yahweh. Let the nations know that they are only men. Selah.

***
[[Ps-08|← Psalm 08]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-10|Psalm 10 →]]
