# Psalm 139

[[Ps-138|← Psalm 138]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-140|Psalm 140 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, you have searched me, and you know me. 

###### v2 
You know my sitting down and my rising up. You perceive my thoughts from afar. 

###### v3 
You search out my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. 

###### v4 
For there is not a word on my tongue, but, behold, Yahweh, you know it altogether. 

###### v5 
You hem me in behind and before. You laid your hand on me. 

###### v6 
This knowledge is beyond me. It's lofty. I can't attain it. 

###### v7 
Where could I go from your Spirit? Or where could I flee from your presence? 

###### v8 
If I ascend up into heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Sheol, behold, you are there! 

###### v9 
If I take the wings of the dawn, and settle in the uttermost parts of the sea, 

###### v10 
even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will hold me. 

###### v11 
If I say, "Surely the darkness will overwhelm me. The light around me will be night," 

###### v12 
even the darkness doesn't hide from you, but the night shines as the day. The darkness is like light to you. 

###### v13 
For you formed my inmost being. You knit me together in my mother's womb. 

###### v14 
I will give thanks to you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Your works are wonderful. My soul knows that very well. 

###### v15 
My frame wasn't hidden from you, when I was made in secret, woven together in the depths of the earth. 

###### v16 
Your eyes saw my body. In your book they were all written, the days that were ordained for me, when as yet there were none of them. 

###### v17 
How precious to me are your thoughts, God! How vast is their sum! 

###### v18 
If I would count them, they are more in number than the sand. When I wake up, I am still with you. 

###### v19 
If only you, God, would kill the wicked. Get away from me, you bloodthirsty men! 

###### v20 
For they speak against you wickedly. Your enemies take your name in vain. 

###### v21 
Yahweh, don't I hate those who hate you? Am I not grieved with those who rise up against you? 

###### v22 
I hate them with perfect hatred. They have become my enemies. 

###### v23 
Search me, God, and know my heart. Try me, and know my thoughts. 

###### v24 
See if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way.

***
[[Ps-138|← Psalm 138]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-140|Psalm 140 →]]
