# Psalm 18

[[Ps-17|← Psalm 17]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-19|Psalm 19 →]]
***



###### v1 
I love you, Yahweh, my strength. 

###### v2 
Yahweh is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge; my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower. 

###### v3 
I call on Yahweh, who is worthy to be praised; and I am saved from my enemies. 

###### v4 
The cords of death surrounded me. The floods of ungodliness made me afraid. 

###### v5 
The cords of Sheol were around me. The snares of death came on me. 

###### v6 
In my distress I called on Yahweh, and cried to my God. He heard my voice out of his temple. My cry before him came into his ears. 

###### v7 
Then the earth shook and trembled. The foundations also of the mountains quaked and were shaken, because he was angry. 

###### v8 
Smoke went out of his nostrils. Consuming fire came out of his mouth. Coals were kindled by it. 

###### v9 
He bowed the heavens also, and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet. 

###### v10 
He rode on a cherub, and flew. Yes, he soared on the wings of the wind. 

###### v11 
He made darkness his hiding place, his pavilion around him, darkness of waters, thick clouds of the skies. 

###### v12 
At the brightness before him his thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire. 

###### v13 
Yahweh also thundered in the sky. The Most High uttered his voice: hailstones and coals of fire. 

###### v14 
He sent out his arrows, and scattered them. He routed them with great lightning bolts. 

###### v15 
Then the channels of waters appeared. The foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, Yahweh, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. 

###### v16 
He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. 

###### v17 
He delivered me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me; for they were too mighty for me. 

###### v18 
They came on me in the day of my calamity, but Yahweh was my support. 

###### v19 
He brought me out also into a large place. He delivered me, because he delighted in me. 

###### v20 
Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness. According to the cleanness of my hands, he has recompensed me. 

###### v21 
For I have kept the ways of Yahweh, and have not wickedly departed from my God. 

###### v22 
For all his ordinances were before me. I didn't put away his statutes from me. 

###### v23 
I was also blameless with him. I kept myself from my iniquity. 

###### v24 
Therefore Yahweh has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight. 

###### v25 
With the merciful you will show yourself merciful. With the perfect man, you will show yourself perfect. 

###### v26 
With the pure, you will show yourself pure. With the crooked you will show yourself shrewd. 

###### v27 
For you will save the afflicted people, but the arrogant eyes you will bring down. 

###### v28 
For you will light my lamp, Yahweh. My God will light up my darkness. 

###### v29 
For by you, I advance through a troop. By my God, I leap over a wall. 

###### v30 
As for God, his way is perfect. Yahweh's word is tried. He is a shield to all those who take refuge in him. 

###### v31 
For who is God, except Yahweh? Who is a rock, besides our God, 

###### v32 
the God who arms me with strength, and makes my way perfect? 

###### v33 
He makes my feet like deer's feet, and sets me on my high places. 

###### v34 
He teaches my hands to war, so that my arms bend a bow of bronze. 

###### v35 
You have also given me the shield of your salvation. Your right hand sustains me. Your gentleness has made me great. 

###### v36 
You have enlarged my steps under me, My feet have not slipped. 

###### v37 
I will pursue my enemies, and overtake them. I won't turn away until they are consumed. 

###### v38 
I will strike them through, so that they will not be able to rise. They shall fall under my feet. 

###### v39 
For you have armed me with strength to the battle. You have subdued under me those who rose up against me. 

###### v40 
You have also made my enemies turn their backs to me, that I might cut off those who hate me. 

###### v41 
They cried, but there was no one to save; even to Yahweh, but he didn't answer them. 

###### v42 
Then I beat them small as the dust before the wind. I cast them out as the mire of the streets. 

###### v43 
You have delivered me from the strivings of the people. You have made me the head of the nations. A people whom I have not known shall serve me. 

###### v44 
As soon as they hear of me they shall obey me. The foreigners shall submit themselves to me. 

###### v45 
The foreigners shall fade away, and shall come trembling out of their strongholds. 

###### v46 
Yahweh lives! Blessed be my rock. Exalted be the God of my salvation, 

###### v47 
even the God who executes vengeance for me, and subdues peoples under me. 

###### v48 
He rescues me from my enemies. Yes, you lift me up above those who rise up against me. You deliver me from the violent man. 

###### v49 
Therefore I will give thanks to you, Yahweh, among the nations, and will sing praises to your name. 

###### v50 
He gives great deliverance to his king, and shows loving kindness to his anointed, to David and to his offspring, forever more.

***
[[Ps-17|← Psalm 17]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-19|Psalm 19 →]]
