# Psalm 144

[[Ps-143|← Psalm 143]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-145|Psalm 145 →]]
***



###### v1 
Blessed be Yahweh, my rock, who teaches my hands to war, and my fingers to battle: 

###### v2 
my loving kindness, my fortress, my high tower, my deliverer, my shield, and he in whom I take refuge, who subdues my people under me. 

###### v3 
Yahweh, what is man, that you care for him? Or the son of man, that you think of him? 

###### v4 
Man is like a breath. His days are like a shadow that passes away. 

###### v5 
Part your heavens, Yahweh, and come down. Touch the mountains, and they will smoke. 

###### v6 
Throw out lightning, and scatter them. Send out your arrows, and rout them. 

###### v7 
Stretch out your hand from above, rescue me, and deliver me out of great waters, out of the hands of foreigners, 

###### v8 
whose mouths speak deceit, whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 

###### v9 
I will sing a new song to you, God. On a ten-stringed lyre, I will sing praises to you. 

###### v10 
You are he who gives salvation to kings, who rescues David, his servant, from the deadly sword. 

###### v11 
Rescue me, and deliver me out of the hands of foreigners, whose mouths speak deceit, whose right hand is a right hand of falsehood. 

###### v12 
Then our sons will be like well-nurtured plants, our daughters like pillars carved to adorn a palace. 

###### v13 
Our barns are full, filled with all kinds of provision. Our sheep produce thousands and ten thousands in our fields. 

###### v14 
Our oxen will pull heavy loads. There is no breaking in, and no going away, and no outcry in our streets. 

###### v15 
Happy are the people who are in such a situation. Happy are the people whose God is Yahweh.

***
[[Ps-143|← Psalm 143]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-145|Psalm 145 →]]
