# Psalm 135

[[Ps-134|← Psalm 134]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-136|Psalm 136 →]]
***



###### v1 
Praise Yah! Praise Yahweh's name! Praise him, you servants of Yahweh, 

###### v2 
you who stand in Yahweh's house, in the courts of our God's house. 

###### v3 
Praise Yah, for Yahweh is good. Sing praises to his name, for that is pleasant. 

###### v4 
For Yah has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel for his own possession. 

###### v5 
For I know that Yahweh is great, that our Lord is above all gods. 

###### v6 
Whatever Yahweh pleased, that he has done, in heaven and in earth, in the seas and in all deeps. 

###### v7 
He causes the clouds to rise from the ends of the earth. He makes lightnings with the rain. He brings the wind out of his treasuries. 

###### v8 
He struck the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and animal. 

###### v9 
He sent signs and wonders into the middle of you, Egypt, on Pharaoh, and on all his servants. 

###### v10 
He struck many nations, and killed mighty kings, 

###### v11 
Sihon king of the Amorites, Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan, 

###### v12 
and gave their land for a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his people. 

###### v13 
Your name, Yahweh, endures forever; your renown, Yahweh, throughout all generations. 

###### v14 
For Yahweh will judge his people and have compassion on his servants. 

###### v15 
The idols of the nations are silver and gold, the work of men's hands. 

###### v16 
They have mouths, but they can't speak. They have eyes, but they can't see. 

###### v17 
They have ears, but they can't hear, neither is there any breath in their mouths. 

###### v18 
Those who make them will be like them, yes, everyone who trusts in them. 

###### v19 
House of Israel, praise Yahweh! House of Aaron, praise Yahweh! 

###### v20 
House of Levi, praise Yahweh! You who fear Yahweh, praise Yahweh! 

###### v21 
Blessed be Yahweh from Zion, who dwells at Jerusalem. Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-134|← Psalm 134]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-136|Psalm 136 →]]
