# Psalm 105

[[Ps-104|← Psalm 104]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-106|Psalm 106 →]]
***



###### v1 
Give thanks to Yahweh! Call on his name! Make his doings known among the peoples. 

###### v2 
Sing to him, sing praises to him! Tell of all his marvelous works. 

###### v3 
Glory in his holy name. Let the heart of those who seek Yahweh rejoice. 

###### v4 
Seek Yahweh and his strength. Seek his face forever more. 

###### v5 
Remember his marvelous works that he has done: his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth, 

###### v6 
you offspring of Abraham, his servant, you children of Jacob, his chosen ones. 

###### v7 
He is Yahweh, our God. His judgments are in all the earth. 

###### v8 
He has remembered his covenant forever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations, 

###### v9 
the covenant which he made with Abraham, his oath to Isaac, 

###### v10 
and confirmed it to Jacob for a statute; to Israel for an everlasting covenant, 

###### v11 
saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance," 

###### v12 
when they were but a few men in number, yes, very few, and foreigners in it. 

###### v13 
They went about from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people. 

###### v14 
He allowed no one to do them wrong. Yes, he reproved kings for their sakes, 

###### v15 
"Don't touch my anointed ones! Do my prophets no harm!" 

###### v16 
He called for a famine on the land. He destroyed the food supplies. 

###### v17 
He sent a man before them. Joseph was sold for a slave. 

###### v18 
They bruised his feet with shackles. His neck was locked in irons, 

###### v19 
until the time that his word happened, and Yahweh's word proved him true. 

###### v20 
The king sent and freed him, even the ruler of peoples, and let him go free. 

###### v21 
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all of his possessions, 

###### v22 
to discipline his princes at his pleasure, and to teach his elders wisdom. 

###### v23 
Israel also came into Egypt. Jacob lived in the land of Ham. 

###### v24 
He increased his people greatly, and made them stronger than their adversaries. 

###### v25 
He turned their heart to hate his people, to conspire against his servants. 

###### v26 
He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen. 

###### v27 
They performed miracles among them, and wonders in the land of Ham. 

###### v28 
He sent darkness, and made it dark. They didn't rebel against his words. 

###### v29 
He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish. 

###### v30 
Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the rooms of their kings. 

###### v31 
He spoke, and swarms of flies came, and lice in all their borders. 

###### v32 
He gave them hail for rain, with lightning in their land. 

###### v33 
He struck their vines and also their fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country. 

###### v34 
He spoke, and the locusts came with the grasshoppers, without number, 

###### v35 
ate up every plant in their land, and ate up the fruit of their ground. 

###### v36 
He struck also all the firstborn in their land, the first fruits of all their manhood. 

###### v37 
He brought them out with silver and gold. There was not one feeble person among his tribes. 

###### v38 
Egypt was glad when they departed, for the fear of them had fallen on them. 

###### v39 
He spread a cloud for a covering, fire to give light in the night. 

###### v40 
They asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of the sky. 

###### v41 
He opened the rock, and waters gushed out. They ran as a river in the dry places. 

###### v42 
For he remembered his holy word, and Abraham, his servant. 

###### v43 
He brought his people out with joy, his chosen with singing. 

###### v44 
He gave them the lands of the nations. They took the labor of the peoples in possession, 

###### v45 
that they might keep his statutes, and observe his laws. Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-104|← Psalm 104]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-106|Psalm 106 →]]
