# Psalm 119

[[Ps-118|← Psalm 118]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-120|Psalm 120 →]]
***



###### v1 
Blessed are those whose ways are blameless, who walk according to Yahweh's law. 

###### v2 
Blessed are those who keep his statutes, who seek him with their whole heart. 

###### v3 
Yes, they do nothing wrong. They walk in his ways. 

###### v4 
You have commanded your precepts, that we should fully obey them. 

###### v5 
Oh that my ways were steadfast to obey your statutes! 

###### v6 
Then I wouldn't be disappointed, when I consider all of your commandments. 

###### v7 
I will give thanks to you with uprightness of heart, when I learn your righteous judgments. 

###### v8 
I will observe your statutes. Don't utterly forsake me. 

###### v9 
How can a young man keep his way pure? By living according to your word. 

###### v10 
With my whole heart, I have sought you. Don't let me wander from your commandments. 

###### v11 
I have hidden your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you. 

###### v12 
Blessed are you, Yahweh. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v13 
With my lips, I have declared all the ordinances of your mouth. 

###### v14 
I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies, as much as in all riches. 

###### v15 
I will meditate on your precepts, and consider your ways. 

###### v16 
I will delight myself in your statutes. I will not forget your word. 

###### v17 
Do good to your servant. I will live and I will obey your word. 

###### v18 
Open my eyes, that I may see wondrous things out of your law. 

###### v19 
I am a stranger on the earth. Don't hide your commandments from me. 

###### v20 
My soul is consumed with longing for your ordinances at all times. 

###### v21 
You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, who wander from your commandments. 

###### v22 
Take reproach and contempt away from me, for I have kept your statutes. 

###### v23 
Though princes sit and slander me, your servant will meditate on your statutes. 

###### v24 
Indeed your statutes are my delight, and my counselors. 

###### v25 
My soul is laid low in the dust. Revive me according to your word! 

###### v26 
I declared my ways, and you answered me. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v27 
Let me understand the teaching of your precepts! Then I will meditate on your wondrous works. 

###### v28 
My soul is weary with sorrow: strengthen me according to your word. 

###### v29 
Keep me from the way of deceit. Grant me your law graciously! 

###### v30 
I have chosen the way of truth. I have set your ordinances before me. 

###### v31 
I cling to your statutes, Yahweh. Don't let me be disappointed. 

###### v32 
I run in the path of your commandments, for you have set my heart free. 

###### v33 
Teach me, Yahweh, the way of your statutes. I will keep them to the end. 

###### v34 
Give me understanding, and I will keep your law. Yes, I will obey it with my whole heart. 

###### v35 
Direct me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in them. 

###### v36 
Turn my heart toward your statutes, not toward selfish gain. 

###### v37 
Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things. Revive me in your ways. 

###### v38 
Fulfill your promise to your servant, that you may be feared. 

###### v39 
Take away my disgrace that I dread, for your ordinances are good. 

###### v40 
Behold, I long for your precepts! Revive me in your righteousness. 

###### v41 
Let your loving kindness also come to me, Yahweh, your salvation, according to your word. 

###### v42 
So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word. 

###### v43 
Don't snatch the word of truth out of my mouth, for I put my hope in your ordinances. 

###### v44 
So I will obey your law continually, forever and ever. 

###### v45 
I will walk in liberty, for I have sought your precepts. 

###### v46 
I will also speak of your statutes before kings, and will not be disappointed. 

###### v47 
I will delight myself in your commandments, because I love them. 

###### v48 
I reach out my hands for your commandments, which I love. I will meditate on your statutes. 

###### v49 
Remember your word to your servant, because you gave me hope. 

###### v50 
This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has revived me. 

###### v51 
The arrogant mock me excessively, but I don't swerve from your law. 

###### v52 
I remember your ordinances of old, Yahweh, and have comforted myself. 

###### v53 
Indignation has taken hold on me, because of the wicked who forsake your law. 

###### v54 
Your statutes have been my songs in the house where I live. 

###### v55 
I have remembered your name, Yahweh, in the night, and I obey your law. 

###### v56 
This is my way, that I keep your precepts. 

###### v57 
Yahweh is my portion. I promised to obey your words. 

###### v58 
I sought your favor with my whole heart. Be merciful to me according to your word. 

###### v59 
I considered my ways, and turned my steps to your statutes. 

###### v60 
I will hurry, and not delay, to obey your commandments. 

###### v61 
The ropes of the wicked bind me, but I won't forget your law. 

###### v62 
At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you, because of your righteous ordinances. 

###### v63 
I am a friend of all those who fear you, of those who observe your precepts. 

###### v64 
The earth is full of your loving kindness, Yahweh. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v65 
You have treated your servant well, according to your word, Yahweh. 

###### v66 
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. 

###### v67 
Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I observe your word. 

###### v68 
You are good, and do good. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v69 
The proud have smeared a lie upon me. With my whole heart, I will keep your precepts. 

###### v70 
Their heart is as callous as the fat, but I delight in your law. 

###### v71 
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I may learn your statutes. 

###### v72 
The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver. 

###### v73 
Your hands have made me and formed me. Give me understanding, that I may learn your commandments. 

###### v74 
Those who fear you will see me and be glad, because I have put my hope in your word. 

###### v75 
Yahweh, I know that your judgments are righteous, that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. 

###### v76 
Please let your loving kindness be for my comfort, according to your word to your servant. 

###### v77 
Let your tender mercies come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight. 

###### v78 
Let the proud be disappointed, for they have overthrown me wrongfully. I will meditate on your precepts. 

###### v79 
Let those who fear you turn to me. They will know your statutes. 

###### v80 
Let my heart be blameless toward your decrees, that I may not be disappointed. 

###### v81 
My soul faints for your salvation. I hope in your word. 

###### v82 
My eyes fail for your word. I say, "When will you comfort me?" 

###### v83 
For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke. I don't forget your statutes. 

###### v84 
How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me? 

###### v85 
The proud have dug pits for me, contrary to your law. 

###### v86 
All of your commandments are faithful. They persecute me wrongfully. Help me! 

###### v87 
They had almost wiped me from the earth, but I didn't forsake your precepts. 

###### v88 
Preserve my life according to your loving kindness, so I will obey the statutes of your mouth. 

###### v89 
Yahweh, your word is settled in heaven forever. 

###### v90 
Your faithfulness is to all generations. You have established the earth, and it remains. 

###### v91 
Your laws remain to this day, for all things serve you. 

###### v92 
Unless your law had been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. 

###### v93 
I will never forget your precepts, for with them, you have revived me. 

###### v94 
I am yours. Save me, for I have sought your precepts. 

###### v95 
The wicked have waited for me, to destroy me. I will consider your statutes. 

###### v96 
I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commands are boundless. 

###### v97 
How I love your law! It is my meditation all day. 

###### v98 
Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for your commandments are always with me. 

###### v99 
I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. 

###### v100 
I understand more than the aged, because I have kept your precepts. 

###### v101 
I have kept my feet from every evil way, that I might observe your word. 

###### v102 
I have not turned away from your ordinances, for you have taught me. 

###### v103 
How sweet are your promises to my taste, more than honey to my mouth! 

###### v104 
Through your precepts, I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way. 

###### v105 
Your word is a lamp to my feet, and a light for my path. 

###### v106 
I have sworn, and have confirmed it, that I will obey your righteous ordinances. 

###### v107 
I am afflicted very much. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your word. 

###### v108 
Accept, I beg you, the willing offerings of my mouth. Yahweh, teach me your ordinances. 

###### v109 
My soul is continually in my hand, yet I won't forget your law. 

###### v110 
The wicked have laid a snare for me, yet I haven't gone astray from your precepts. 

###### v111 
I have taken your testimonies as a heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. 

###### v112 
I have set my heart to perform your statutes forever, even to the end. 

###### v113 
I hate double-minded men, but I love your law. 

###### v114 
You are my hiding place and my shield. I hope in your word. 

###### v115 
Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God. 

###### v116 
Uphold me according to your word, that I may live. Let me not be ashamed of my hope. 

###### v117 
Hold me up, and I will be safe, and will have respect for your statutes continually. 

###### v118 
You reject all those who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is in vain. 

###### v119 
You put away all the wicked of the earth like dross. Therefore I love your testimonies. 

###### v120 
My flesh trembles for fear of you. I am afraid of your judgments. 

###### v121 
I have done what is just and righteous. Don't leave me to my oppressors. 

###### v122 
Ensure your servant's well-being. Don't let the proud oppress me. 

###### v123 
My eyes fail looking for your salvation, for your righteous word. 

###### v124 
Deal with your servant according to your loving kindness. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v125 
I am your servant. Give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies. 

###### v126 
It is time to act, Yahweh, for they break your law. 

###### v127 
Therefore I love your commandments more than gold, yes, more than pure gold. 

###### v128 
Therefore I consider all of your precepts to be right. I hate every false way. 

###### v129 
Your testimonies are wonderful, therefore my soul keeps them. 

###### v130 
The entrance of your words gives light. It gives understanding to the simple. 

###### v131 
I opened my mouth wide and panted, for I longed for your commandments. 

###### v132 
Turn to me, and have mercy on me, as you always do to those who love your name. 

###### v133 
Establish my footsteps in your word. Don't let any iniquity have dominion over me. 

###### v134 
Redeem me from the oppression of man, so I will observe your precepts. 

###### v135 
Make your face shine on your servant. Teach me your statutes. 

###### v136 
Streams of tears run down my eyes, because they don't observe your law. 

###### v137 
You are righteous, Yahweh. Your judgments are upright. 

###### v138 
You have commanded your statutes in righteousness. They are fully trustworthy. 

###### v139 
My zeal wears me out, because my enemies ignore your words. 

###### v140 
Your promises have been thoroughly tested, and your servant loves them. 

###### v141 
I am small and despised. I don't forget your precepts. 

###### v142 
Your righteousness is an everlasting righteousness. Your law is truth. 

###### v143 
Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me. Your commandments are my delight. 

###### v144 
Your testimonies are righteous forever. Give me understanding, that I may live. 

###### v145 
I have called with my whole heart. Answer me, Yahweh! I will keep your statutes. 

###### v146 
I have called to you. Save me! I will obey your statutes. 

###### v147 
I rise before dawn and cry for help. I put my hope in your words. 

###### v148 
My eyes stay open through the night watches, that I might meditate on your word. 

###### v149 
Hear my voice according to your loving kindness. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your ordinances. 

###### v150 
They draw near who follow after wickedness. They are far from your law. 

###### v151 
You are near, Yahweh. All your commandments are truth. 

###### v152 
Of old I have known from your testimonies, that you have founded them forever. 

###### v153 
Consider my affliction, and deliver me, for I don't forget your law. 

###### v154 
Plead my cause, and redeem me! Revive me according to your promise. 

###### v155 
Salvation is far from the wicked, for they don't seek your statutes. 

###### v156 
Great are your tender mercies, Yahweh. Revive me according to your ordinances. 

###### v157 
Many are my persecutors and my adversaries. I haven't swerved from your testimonies. 

###### v158 
I look at the faithless with loathing, because they don't observe your word. 

###### v159 
Consider how I love your precepts. Revive me, Yahweh, according to your loving kindness. 

###### v160 
All of your words are truth. Every one of your righteous ordinances endures forever. 

###### v161 
Princes have persecuted me without a cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words. 

###### v162 
I rejoice at your word, as one who finds great plunder. 

###### v163 
I hate and abhor falsehood. I love your law. 

###### v164 
Seven times a day, I praise you, because of your righteous ordinances. 

###### v165 
Those who love your law have great peace. Nothing causes them to stumble. 

###### v166 
I have hoped for your salvation, Yahweh. I have done your commandments. 

###### v167 
My soul has observed your testimonies. I love them exceedingly. 

###### v168 
I have obeyed your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you. 

###### v169 
Let my cry come before you, Yahweh. Give me understanding according to your word. 

###### v170 
Let my supplication come before you. Deliver me according to your word. 

###### v171 
Let my lips utter praise, for you teach me your statutes. 

###### v172 
Let my tongue sing of your word, for all your commandments are righteousness. 

###### v173 
Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts. 

###### v174 
I have longed for your salvation, Yahweh. Your law is my delight. 

###### v175 
Let my soul live, that I may praise you. Let your ordinances help me. 

###### v176 
I have gone astray like a lost sheep. Seek your servant, for I don't forget your commandments.

***
[[Ps-118|← Psalm 118]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-120|Psalm 120 →]]
