# Psalm 118

[[Ps-117|← Psalm 117]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-119|Psalm 119 →]]
***



###### v1 
Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v2 
Let Israel now say that his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v3 
Let the house of Aaron now say that his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v4 
Now let those who fear Yahweh say that his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v5 
Out of my distress, I called on Yah. Yah answered me with freedom. 

###### v6 
Yahweh is on my side. I will not be afraid. What can man do to me? 

###### v7 
Yahweh is on my side among those who help me. Therefore I will look in triumph at those who hate me. 

###### v8 
It is better to take refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in man. 

###### v9 
It is better to take refuge in Yahweh, than to put confidence in princes. 

###### v10 
All the nations surrounded me, but in Yahweh's name, I cut them off. 

###### v11 
They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. In Yahweh's name I indeed cut them off. 

###### v12 
They surrounded me like bees. They are quenched like the burning thorns. In Yahweh's name I cut them off. 

###### v13 
You pushed me back hard, to make me fall, but Yahweh helped me. 

###### v14 
Yah is my strength and song. He has become my salvation. 

###### v15 
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous. "The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly. 

###### v16 
The right hand of Yahweh is exalted! The right hand of Yahweh does valiantly!" 

###### v17 
I will not die, but live, and declare Yah's works. 

###### v18 
Yah has punished me severely, but he has not given me over to death. 

###### v19 
Open to me the gates of righteousness. I will enter into them. I will give thanks to Yah. 

###### v20 
This is the gate of Yahweh; the righteous will enter into it. 

###### v21 
I will give thanks to you, for you have answered me, and have become my salvation. 

###### v22 
The stone which the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. 

###### v23 
This is Yahweh's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. 

###### v24 
This is the day that Yahweh has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it! 

###### v25 
Save us now, we beg you, Yahweh! Yahweh, we beg you, send prosperity now. 

###### v26 
Blessed is he who comes in Yahweh's name! We have blessed you out of Yahweh's house. 

###### v27 
Yahweh is God, and he has given us light. Bind the sacrifice with cords, even to the horns of the altar. 

###### v28 
You are my God, and I will give thanks to you. You are my God, I will exalt you. 

###### v29 
Oh give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever.

***
[[Ps-117|← Psalm 117]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-119|Psalm 119 →]]
