# Psalm 132

[[Ps-131|← Psalm 131]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-133|Psalm 133 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, remember David and all his affliction, 

###### v2 
how he swore to Yahweh, and vowed to the Mighty One of Jacob: 

###### v3 
"Surely I will not come into the structure of my house, nor go up into my bed; 

###### v4 
I will not give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids; 

###### v5 
until I find out a place for Yahweh, a dwelling for the Mighty One of Jacob." 

###### v6 
Behold, we heard of it in Ephrathah. We found it in the field of Jaar: 

###### v7 
"We will go into his dwelling place. We will worship at his footstool. 

###### v8 
Arise, Yahweh, into your resting place, you, and the ark of your strength. 

###### v9 
Let your priests be clothed with righteousness. Let your saints shout for joy!" 

###### v10 
For your servant David's sake, don't turn away the face of your anointed one. 

###### v11 
Yahweh has sworn to David in truth. He will not turn from it: "I will set the fruit of your body on your throne. 

###### v12 
If your children will keep my covenant, my testimony that I will teach them, their children also will sit on your throne forever more." 

###### v13 
For Yahweh has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his habitation. 

###### v14 
"This is my resting place forever. I will live here, for I have desired it. 

###### v15 
I will abundantly bless her provision. I will satisfy her poor with bread. 

###### v16 
I will also clothe her priests with salvation. Her saints will shout aloud for joy. 

###### v17 
I will make the horn of David to bud there. I have ordained a lamp for my anointed. 

###### v18 
I will clothe his enemies with shame, but on himself, his crown will shine."

***
[[Ps-131|← Psalm 131]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-133|Psalm 133 →]]
