# Psalm 145

[[Ps-144|← Psalm 144]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-146|Psalm 146 →]]
***



###### v1 
I will exalt you, my God, the King. I will praise your name forever and ever. 

###### v2 
Every day I will praise you. I will extol your name forever and ever. 

###### v3 
Great is Yahweh, and greatly to be praised! His greatness is unsearchable. 

###### v4 
One generation will commend your works to another, and will declare your mighty acts. 

###### v5 
I will meditate on the glorious majesty of your honor, on your wondrous works. 

###### v6 
Men will speak of the might of your awesome acts. I will declare your greatness. 

###### v7 
They will utter the memory of your great goodness, and will sing of your righteousness. 

###### v8 
Yahweh is gracious, merciful, slow to anger, and of great loving kindness. 

###### v9 
Yahweh is good to all. His tender mercies are over all his works. 

###### v10 
All your works will give thanks to you, Yahweh. Your saints will extol you. 

###### v11 
They will speak of the glory of your kingdom, and talk about your power, 

###### v12 
to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, the glory of the majesty of his kingdom. 

###### v13 
Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Your dominion endures throughout all generations. Yahweh is faithful in all his words, and loving in all his deeds. 

###### v14 
Yahweh upholds all who fall, and raises up all those who are bowed down. 

###### v15 
The eyes of all wait for you. You give them their food in due season. 

###### v16 
You open your hand, and satisfy the desire of every living thing. 

###### v17 
Yahweh is righteous in all his ways, and gracious in all his works. 

###### v18 
Yahweh is near to all those who call on him, to all who call on him in truth. 

###### v19 
He will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. He also will hear their cry, and will save them. 

###### v20 
Yahweh preserves all those who love him, but he will destroy all the wicked. 

###### v21 
My mouth will speak the praise of Yahweh. Let all flesh bless his holy name forever and ever.

***
[[Ps-144|← Psalm 144]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-146|Psalm 146 →]]
