# Psalm 109

[[Ps-108|← Psalm 108]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-110|Psalm 110 →]]
***



###### v1 
God of my praise, don't remain silent, 

###### v2 
for they have opened the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of deceit against me. They have spoken to me with a lying tongue. 

###### v3 
They have also surrounded me with words of hatred, and fought against me without a cause. 

###### v4 
In return for my love, they are my adversaries; but I am in prayer. 

###### v5 
They have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 

###### v6 
Set a wicked man over him. Let an adversary stand at his right hand. 

###### v7 
When he is judged, let him come out guilty. Let his prayer be turned into sin. 

###### v8 
Let his days be few. Let another take his office. 

###### v9 
Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow. 

###### v10 
Let his children be wandering beggars. Let them be sought from their ruins. 

###### v11 
Let the creditor seize all that he has. Let strangers plunder the fruit of his labor. 

###### v12 
Let there be no one to extend kindness to him, neither let there be anyone to have pity on his fatherless children. 

###### v13 
Let his posterity be cut off. In the generation following let their name be blotted out. 

###### v14 
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered by Yahweh. Don't let the sin of his mother be blotted out. 

###### v15 
Let them be before Yahweh continually, that he may cut off their memory from the earth; 

###### v16 
because he didn't remember to show kindness, but persecuted the poor and needy man, the broken in heart, to kill them. 

###### v17 
Yes, he loved cursing, and it came to him. He didn't delight in blessing, and it was far from him. 

###### v18 
He clothed himself also with cursing as with his garment. It came into his inward parts like water, like oil into his bones. 

###### v19 
Let it be to him as the clothing with which he covers himself, for the belt that is always around him. 

###### v20 
This is the reward of my adversaries from Yahweh, of those who speak evil against my soul. 

###### v21 
But deal with me, Yahweh the Lord, for your name's sake, because your loving kindness is good, deliver me; 

###### v22 
for I am poor and needy. My heart is wounded within me. 

###### v23 
I fade away like an evening shadow. I am shaken off like a locust. 

###### v24 
My knees are weak through fasting. My body is thin and lacks fat. 

###### v25 
I have also become a reproach to them. When they see me, they shake their head. 

###### v26 
Help me, Yahweh, my God. Save me according to your loving kindness; 

###### v27 
that they may know that this is your hand; that you, Yahweh, have done it. 

###### v28 
They may curse, but you bless. When they arise, they will be shamed, but your servant shall rejoice. 

###### v29 
Let my adversaries be clothed with dishonor. Let them cover themselves with their own shame as with a robe. 

###### v30 
I will give great thanks to Yahweh with my mouth. Yes, I will praise him among the multitude. 

###### v31 
For he will stand at the right hand of the needy, to save him from those who judge his soul.

***
[[Ps-108|← Psalm 108]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-110|Psalm 110 →]]
