# Psalm 10

[[Ps-09|← Psalm 09]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-11|Psalm 11 →]]
***



###### v1 
Why do you stand far off, Yahweh? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? 

###### v2 
In arrogance, the wicked hunt down the weak. They are caught in the schemes that they devise. 

###### v3 
For the wicked boasts of his heart's cravings. He blesses the greedy and condemns Yahweh. 

###### v4 
The wicked, in the pride of his face, has no room in his thoughts for God. 

###### v5 
His ways are prosperous at all times. He is arrogant, and your laws are far from his sight. As for all his adversaries, he sneers at them. 

###### v6 
He says in his heart, "I shall not be shaken. For generations I shall have no trouble." 

###### v7 
His mouth is full of cursing, deceit, and oppression. Under his tongue is mischief and iniquity. 

###### v8 
He lies in wait near the villages. From ambushes, he murders the innocent. His eyes are secretly set against the helpless. 

###### v9 
He lurks in secret as a lion in his ambush. He lies in wait to catch the helpless. He catches the helpless when he draws him in his net. 

###### v10 
The helpless are crushed. They collapse. They fall under his strength. 

###### v11 
He says in his heart, "God has forgotten. He hides his face. He will never see it." 

###### v12 
Arise, Yahweh! God, lift up your hand! Don't forget the helpless. 

###### v13 
Why does the wicked person condemn God, and say in his heart, "God won't call me into account?" 

###### v14 
But you do see trouble and grief. You consider it to take it into your hand. You help the victim and the fatherless. 

###### v15 
Break the arm of the wicked. As for the evil man, seek out his wickedness until you find none. 

###### v16 
Yahweh is King forever and ever! The nations will perish out of his land. 

###### v17 
Yahweh, you have heard the desire of the humble. You will prepare their heart. You will cause your ear to hear, 

###### v18 
to judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that man who is of the earth may terrify no more.

***
[[Ps-09|← Psalm 09]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-11|Psalm 11 →]]
