# Psalm 107

[[Ps-106|← Psalm 106]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-108|Psalm 108 →]]
***



###### v1 
Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v2 
Let the redeemed by Yahweh say so, whom he has redeemed from the hand of the adversary, 

###### v3 
and gathered out of the lands, from the east and from the west, from the north and from the south. 

###### v4 
They wandered in the wilderness in a desert way. They found no city to live in. 

###### v5 
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them. 

###### v6 
Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses, 

###### v7 
he led them also by a straight way, that they might go to a city to live in. 

###### v8 
Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful deeds to the children of men! 

###### v9 
For he satisfies the longing soul. He fills the hungry soul with good. 

###### v10 
Some sat in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron, 

###### v11 
because they rebelled against the words of God, and condemned the counsel of the Most High. 

###### v12 
Therefore he brought down their heart with labor. They fell down, and there was no one to help. 

###### v13 
Then they cried to Yahweh in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses. 

###### v14 
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and broke away their chains. 

###### v15 
Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful deeds to the children of men! 

###### v16 
For he has broken the gates of bronze, and cut through bars of iron. 

###### v17 
Fools are afflicted because of their disobedience, and because of their iniquities. 

###### v18 
Their soul abhors all kinds of food. They draw near to the gates of death. 

###### v19 
Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, he saves them out of their distresses. 

###### v20 
He sends his word, and heals them, and delivers them from their graves. 

###### v21 
Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful deeds to the children of men! 

###### v22 
Let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his deeds with singing. 

###### v23 
Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business in great waters; 

###### v24 
These see Yahweh's deeds, and his wonders in the deep. 

###### v25 
For he commands, and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up its waves. 

###### v26 
They mount up to the sky; they go down again to the depths. Their soul melts away because of trouble. 

###### v27 
They reel back and forth, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wits' end. 

###### v28 
Then they cry to Yahweh in their trouble, and he brings them out of their distress. 

###### v29 
He makes the storm a calm, so that its waves are still. 

###### v30 
Then they are glad because it is calm, so he brings them to their desired haven. 

###### v31 
Let them praise Yahweh for his loving kindness, for his wonderful deeds for the children of men! 

###### v32 
Let them exalt him also in the assembly of the people, and praise him in the seat of the elders. 

###### v33 
He turns rivers into a desert, water springs into a thirsty ground, 

###### v34 
and a fruitful land into a salt waste, for the wickedness of those who dwell in it. 

###### v35 
He turns a desert into a pool of water, and a dry land into water springs. 

###### v36 
There he makes the hungry live, that they may prepare a city to live in, 

###### v37 
sow fields, plant vineyards, and reap the fruits of increase. 

###### v38 
He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly. He doesn't allow their livestock to decrease. 

###### v39 
Again, they are diminished and bowed down through oppression, trouble, and sorrow. 

###### v40 
He pours contempt on princes, and causes them to wander in a trackless waste. 

###### v41 
Yet he lifts the needy out of their affliction, and increases their families like a flock. 

###### v42 
The upright will see it, and be glad. All the wicked will shut their mouths. 

###### v43 
Whoever is wise will pay attention to these things. They will consider the loving kindnesses of Yahweh.

***
[[Ps-106|← Psalm 106]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-108|Psalm 108 →]]
