# Psalm 104

[[Ps-103|← Psalm 103]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-105|Psalm 105 →]]
***



###### v1 
Bless Yahweh, my soul. Yahweh, my God, you are very great. You are clothed with honor and majesty. 

###### v2 
He covers himself with light as with a garment. He stretches out the heavens like a curtain. 

###### v3 
He lays the beams of his rooms in the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He walks on the wings of the wind. 

###### v4 
He makes his messengers winds, and his servants flames of fire. 

###### v5 
He laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be moved forever. 

###### v6 
You covered it with the deep as with a cloak. The waters stood above the mountains. 

###### v7 
At your rebuke they fled. At the voice of your thunder they hurried away. 

###### v8 
The mountains rose, the valleys sank down, to the place which you had assigned to them. 

###### v9 
You have set a boundary that they may not pass over, that they don't turn again to cover the earth. 

###### v10 
He sends springs into the valleys. They run among the mountains. 

###### v11 
They give drink to every animal of the field. The wild donkeys quench their thirst. 

###### v12 
The birds of the sky nest by them. They sing among the branches. 

###### v13 
He waters the mountains from his rooms. The earth is filled with the fruit of your works. 

###### v14 
He causes the grass to grow for the livestock, and plants for man to cultivate, that he may produce food out of the earth: 

###### v15 
wine that makes the heart of man glad, oil to make his face to shine, and bread that strengthens man's heart. 

###### v16 
Yahweh's trees are well watered, the cedars of Lebanon, which he has planted, 

###### v17 
where the birds make their nests. The stork makes its home in the cypress trees. 

###### v18 
The high mountains are for the wild goats. The rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. 

###### v19 
He appointed the moon for seasons. The sun knows when to set. 

###### v20 
You make darkness, and it is night, in which all the animals of the forest prowl. 

###### v21 
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God. 

###### v22 
The sun rises, and they steal away, and lie down in their dens. 

###### v23 
Man goes out to his work, to his labor until the evening. 

###### v24 
Yahweh, how many are your works! In wisdom, you have made them all. The earth is full of your riches. 

###### v25 
There is the sea, great and wide, in which are innumerable living things, both small and large animals. 

###### v26 
There the ships go, and leviathan, whom you formed to play there. 

###### v27 
These all wait for you, that you may give them their food in due season. 

###### v28 
You give to them; they gather. You open your hand; they are satisfied with good. 

###### v29 
You hide your face; they are troubled. You take away their breath; they die and return to the dust. 

###### v30 
You send out your Spirit and they are created. You renew the face of the ground. 

###### v31 
Let Yahweh's glory endure forever. Let Yahweh rejoice in his works. 

###### v32 
He looks at the earth, and it trembles. He touches the mountains, and they smoke. 

###### v33 
I will sing to Yahweh as long as I live. I will sing praise to my God while I have any being. 

###### v34 
Let my meditation be sweet to him. I will rejoice in Yahweh. 

###### v35 
Let sinners be consumed out of the earth. Let the wicked be no more. Bless Yahweh, my soul. Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-103|← Psalm 103]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-105|Psalm 105 →]]
