# Psalm 102

[[Ps-101|← Psalm 101]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-103|Psalm 103 →]]
***



###### v1 
Hear my prayer, Yahweh! Let my cry come to you. 

###### v2 
Don't hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Turn your ear to me. Answer me quickly in the day when I call. 

###### v3 
For my days consume away like smoke. My bones are burned as a torch. 

###### v4 
My heart is blighted like grass, and withered, for I forget to eat my bread. 

###### v5 
By reason of the voice of my groaning, my bones stick to my skin. 

###### v6 
I am like a pelican of the wilderness. I have become as an owl of the waste places. 

###### v7 
I watch, and have become like a sparrow that is alone on the housetop. 

###### v8 
My enemies reproach me all day. Those who are mad at me use my name as a curse. 

###### v9 
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mixed my drink with tears, 

###### v10 
because of your indignation and your wrath; for you have taken me up and thrown me away. 

###### v11 
My days are like a long shadow. I have withered like grass. 

###### v12 
But you, Yahweh, will remain forever; your renown endures to all generations. 

###### v13 
You will arise and have mercy on Zion; for it is time to have pity on her. Yes, the set time has come. 

###### v14 
For your servants take pleasure in her stones, and have pity on her dust. 

###### v15 
So the nations will fear Yahweh's name, all the kings of the earth your glory. 

###### v16 
For Yahweh has built up Zion. He has appeared in his glory. 

###### v17 
He has responded to the prayer of the destitute, and has not despised their prayer. 

###### v18 
This will be written for the generation to come. A people which will be created will praise Yah, 

###### v19 
for he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary. From heaven, Yahweh saw the earth, 

###### v20 
to hear the groans of the prisoner, to free those who are condemned to death, 

###### v21 
that men may declare Yahweh's name in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem, 

###### v22 
when the peoples are gathered together, the kingdoms, to serve Yahweh. 

###### v23 
He weakened my strength along the course. He shortened my days. 

###### v24 
I said, "My God, don't take me away in the middle of my days. Your years are throughout all generations. 

###### v25 
Of old, you laid the foundation of the earth. The heavens are the work of your hands. 

###### v26 
They will perish, but you will endure. Yes, all of them will wear out like a garment. You will change them like a cloak, and they will be changed. 

###### v27 
But you are the same. Your years will have no end. 

###### v28 
The children of your servants will continue. Their offspring will be established before you."

***
[[Ps-101|← Psalm 101]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-103|Psalm 103 →]]
