# Psalm 143

[[Ps-142|← Psalm 142]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-144|Psalm 144 →]]
***



###### v1 
Hear my prayer, Yahweh. Listen to my petitions. In your faithfulness and righteousness, relieve me. 

###### v2 
Don't enter into judgment with your servant, for in your sight no man living is righteous. 

###### v3 
For the enemy pursues my soul. He has struck my life down to the ground. He has made me live in dark places, as those who have been long dead. 

###### v4 
Therefore my spirit is overwhelmed within me. My heart within me is desolate. 

###### v5 
I remember the days of old. I meditate on all your doings. I contemplate the work of your hands. 

###### v6 
I spread out my hands to you. My soul thirsts for you, like a parched land. Selah. 

###### v7 
Hurry to answer me, Yahweh. My spirit fails. Don't hide your face from me, so that I don't become like those who go down into the pit. 

###### v8 
Cause me to hear your loving kindness in the morning, for I trust in you. Cause me to know the way in which I should walk, for I lift up my soul to you. 

###### v9 
Deliver me, Yahweh, from my enemies. I flee to you to hide me. 

###### v10 
Teach me to do your will, for you are my God. Your Spirit is good. Lead me in the land of uprightness. 

###### v11 
Revive me, Yahweh, for your name's sake. In your righteousness, bring my soul out of trouble. 

###### v12 
In your loving kindness, cut off my enemies, and destroy all those who afflict my soul, For I am your servant.

***
[[Ps-142|← Psalm 142]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-144|Psalm 144 →]]
