# Psalm 147

[[Ps-146|← Psalm 146]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-148|Psalm 148 →]]
***



###### v1 
Praise Yah, for it is good to sing praises to our God; for it is pleasant and fitting to praise him. 

###### v2 
Yahweh builds up Jerusalem. He gathers together the outcasts of Israel. 

###### v3 
He heals the broken in heart, and binds up their wounds. 

###### v4 
He counts the number of the stars. He calls them all by their names. 

###### v5 
Great is our Lord, and mighty in power. His understanding is infinite. 

###### v6 
Yahweh upholds the humble. He brings the wicked down to the ground. 

###### v7 
Sing to Yahweh with thanksgiving. Sing praises on the harp to our God, 

###### v8 
who covers the sky with clouds, who prepares rain for the earth, who makes grass grow on the mountains. 

###### v9 
He provides food for the livestock, and for the young ravens when they call. 

###### v10 
He doesn't delight in the strength of the horse. He takes no pleasure in the legs of a man. 

###### v11 
Yahweh takes pleasure in those who fear him, in those who hope in his loving kindness. 

###### v12 
Praise Yahweh, Jerusalem! Praise your God, Zion! 

###### v13 
For he has strengthened the bars of your gates. He has blessed your children within you. 

###### v14 
He makes peace in your borders. He fills you with the finest of the wheat. 

###### v15 
He sends out his commandment to the earth. His word runs very swiftly. 

###### v16 
He gives snow like wool, and scatters frost like ashes. 

###### v17 
He hurls down his hail like pebbles. Who can stand before his cold? 

###### v18 
He sends out his word, and melts them. He causes his wind to blow, and the waters flow. 

###### v19 
He shows his word to Jacob, his statutes and his ordinances to Israel. 

###### v20 
He has not done this for just any nation. They don't know his ordinances. Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-146|← Psalm 146]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-148|Psalm 148 →]]
