# Psalm 103

[[Ps-102|← Psalm 102]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-104|Psalm 104 →]]
***



###### v1 
Praise Yahweh, my soul! All that is within me, praise his holy name! 

###### v2 
Praise Yahweh, my soul, and don't forget all his benefits, 

###### v3 
who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases, 

###### v4 
who redeems your life from destruction, who crowns you with loving kindness and tender mercies, 

###### v5 
who satisfies your desire with good things, so that your youth is renewed like the eagle's. 

###### v6 
Yahweh executes righteous acts, and justice for all who are oppressed. 

###### v7 
He made known his ways to Moses, his deeds to the children of Israel. 

###### v8 
Yahweh is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness. 

###### v9 
He will not always accuse; neither will he stay angry forever. 

###### v10 
He has not dealt with us according to our sins, nor repaid us for our iniquities. 

###### v11 
For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. 

###### v12 
As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us. 

###### v13 
Like a father has compassion on his children, so Yahweh has compassion on those who fear him. 

###### v14 
For he knows how we are made. He remembers that we are dust. 

###### v15 
As for man, his days are like grass. As a flower of the field, so he flourishes. 

###### v16 
For the wind passes over it, and it is gone. Its place remembers it no more. 

###### v17 
But Yahweh's loving kindness is from everlasting to everlasting with those who fear him, his righteousness to children's children, 

###### v18 
to those who keep his covenant, to those who remember to obey his precepts. 

###### v19 
Yahweh has established his throne in the heavens. His kingdom rules over all. 

###### v20 
Praise Yahweh, you angels of his, who are mighty in strength, who fulfill his word, obeying the voice of his word. 

###### v21 
Praise Yahweh, all you armies of his, you servants of his, who do his pleasure. 

###### v22 
Praise Yahweh, all you works of his, in all places of his dominion. Praise Yahweh, my soul!

***
[[Ps-102|← Psalm 102]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-104|Psalm 104 →]]
