# Psalm 116

[[Ps-115|← Psalm 115]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-117|Psalm 117 →]]
***



###### v1 
I love Yahweh, because he listens to my voice, and my cries for mercy. 

###### v2 
Because he has turned his ear to me, therefore I will call on him as long as I live. 

###### v3 
The cords of death surrounded me, the pains of Sheol got a hold of me. I found trouble and sorrow. 

###### v4 
Then I called on Yahweh's name: "Yahweh, I beg you, deliver my soul." 

###### v5 
Yahweh is gracious and righteous. Yes, our God is merciful. 

###### v6 
Yahweh preserves the simple. I was brought low, and he saved me. 

###### v7 
Return to your rest, my soul, for Yahweh has dealt bountifully with you. 

###### v8 
For you have delivered my soul from death, my eyes from tears, and my feet from falling. 

###### v9 
I will walk before Yahweh in the land of the living. 

###### v10 
I believed, therefore I said, "I was greatly afflicted." 

###### v11 
I said in my haste, "All people are liars." 

###### v12 
What will I give to Yahweh for all his benefits toward me? 

###### v13 
I will take the cup of salvation, and call on Yahweh's name. 

###### v14 
I will pay my vows to Yahweh, yes, in the presence of all his people. 

###### v15 
Precious in Yahweh's sight is the death of his saints. 

###### v16 
Yahweh, truly I am your servant. I am your servant, the son of your servant girl. You have freed me from my chains. 

###### v17 
I will offer to you the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call on Yahweh's name. 

###### v18 
I will pay my vows to Yahweh, yes, in the presence of all his people, 

###### v19 
in the courts of Yahweh's house, in the middle of you, Jerusalem. Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-115|← Psalm 115]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-117|Psalm 117 →]]
