# Psalm 140

[[Ps-139|← Psalm 139]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-141|Psalm 141 →]]
***



###### v1 
Deliver me, Yahweh, from the evil man. Preserve me from the violent man: 

###### v2 
those who devise mischief in their hearts. They continually gather themselves together for war. 

###### v3 
They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent. Viper's poison is under their lips. Selah. 

###### v4 
Yahweh, keep me from the hands of the wicked. Preserve me from the violent men who have determined to trip my feet. 

###### v5 
The proud have hidden a snare for me, they have spread the cords of a net by the path. They have set traps for me. Selah. 

###### v6 
I said to Yahweh, "You are my God." Listen to the cry of my petitions, Yahweh. 

###### v7 
Yahweh, the Lord, the strength of my salvation, you have covered my head in the day of battle. 

###### v8 
Yahweh, don't grant the desires of the wicked. Don't let their evil plans succeed, or they will become proud. Selah. 

###### v9 
As for the head of those who surround me, let the mischief of their own lips cover them. 

###### v10 
Let burning coals fall on them. Let them be thrown into the fire, into miry pits, from where they never rise. 

###### v11 
An evil speaker won't be established in the earth. Evil will hunt the violent man to overthrow him. 

###### v12 
I know that Yahweh will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and justice for the needy. 

###### v13 
Surely the righteous will give thanks to your name. The upright will dwell in your presence.

***
[[Ps-139|← Psalm 139]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-141|Psalm 141 →]]
