# Psalm 106

[[Ps-105|← Psalm 105]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-107|Psalm 107 →]]
***



###### v1 
Praise Yahweh! Give thanks to Yahweh, for he is good, for his loving kindness endures forever. 

###### v2 
Who can utter the mighty acts of Yahweh, or fully declare all his praise? 

###### v3 
Blessed are those who keep justice. Blessed is one who does what is right at all times. 

###### v4 
Remember me, Yahweh, with the favor that you show to your people. Visit me with your salvation, 

###### v5 
that I may see the prosperity of your chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance. 

###### v6 
We have sinned with our fathers. We have committed iniquity. We have done wickedly. 

###### v7 
Our fathers didn't understand your wonders in Egypt. They didn't remember the multitude of your loving kindnesses, but were rebellious at the sea, even at the Red Sea. 

###### v8 
Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power known. 

###### v9 
He rebuked the Red Sea also, and it was dried up; so he led them through the depths, as through a desert. 

###### v10 
He saved them from the hand of him who hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy. 

###### v11 
The waters covered their adversaries. There was not one of them left. 

###### v12 
Then they believed his words. They sang his praise. 

###### v13 
They soon forgot his works. They didn't wait for his counsel, 

###### v14 
but gave in to craving in the desert, and tested God in the wasteland. 

###### v15 
He gave them their request, but sent leanness into their soul. 

###### v16 
They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron, Yahweh's saint. 

###### v17 
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 

###### v18 
A fire was kindled in their company. The flame burned up the wicked. 

###### v19 
They made a calf in Horeb, and worshiped a molten image. 

###### v20 
Thus they exchanged their glory for an image of a bull that eats grass. 

###### v21 
They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt, 

###### v22 
wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome things by the Red Sea. 

###### v23 
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had Moses, his chosen, not stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, so that he wouldn't destroy them. 

###### v24 
Yes, they despised the pleasant land. They didn't believe his word, 

###### v25 
but murmured in their tents, and didn't listen to Yahweh's voice. 

###### v26 
Therefore he swore to them that he would overthrow them in the wilderness, 

###### v27 
that he would overthrow their offspring among the nations, and scatter them in the lands. 

###### v28 
They joined themselves also to Baal Peor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead. 

###### v29 
Thus they provoked him to anger with their deeds. The plague broke in on them. 

###### v30 
Then Phinehas stood up and executed judgment, so the plague was stopped. 

###### v31 
That was credited to him for righteousness, for all generations to come. 

###### v32 
They angered him also at the waters of Meribah, so that Moses was troubled for their sakes; 

###### v33 
because they were rebellious against his spirit, he spoke rashly with his lips. 

###### v34 
They didn't destroy the peoples, as Yahweh commanded them, 

###### v35 
but mixed themselves with the nations, and learned their works. 

###### v36 
They served their idols, which became a snare to them. 

###### v37 
Yes, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to demons. 

###### v38 
They shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan. The land was polluted with blood. 

###### v39 
Thus they were defiled with their works, and prostituted themselves in their deeds. 

###### v40 
Therefore Yahweh burned with anger against his people. He abhorred his inheritance. 

###### v41 
He gave them into the hand of the nations. Those who hated them ruled over them. 

###### v42 
Their enemies also oppressed them. They were brought into subjection under their hand. 

###### v43 
He rescued them many times, but they were rebellious in their counsel, and were brought low in their iniquity. 

###### v44 
Nevertheless he regarded their distress, when he heard their cry. 

###### v45 
He remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his loving kindnesses. 

###### v46 
He made them also to be pitied by all those who carried them captive. 

###### v47 
Save us, Yahweh, our God, gather us from among the nations, to give thanks to your holy name, to triumph in your praise! 

###### v48 
Blessed be Yahweh, the God of Israel, from everlasting even to everlasting! Let all the people say, "Amen." Praise Yah!

***
[[Ps-105|← Psalm 105]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-107|Psalm 107 →]]
