# Psalm 27

[[Ps-26|← Psalm 26]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-28|Psalm 28 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? Yahweh is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? 

###### v2 
When evildoers came at me to eat up my flesh, even my adversaries and my foes, they stumbled and fell. 

###### v3 
Though an army should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, even then I will be confident. 

###### v4 
One thing I have asked of Yahweh, that I will seek after: that I may dwell in Yahweh's house all the days of my life, to see Yahweh's beauty, and to inquire in his temple. 

###### v5 
For in the day of trouble, he will keep me secretly in his pavilion. In the secret place of his tabernacle, he will hide me. He will lift me up on a rock. 

###### v6 
Now my head will be lifted up above my enemies around me. I will offer sacrifices of joy in his tent. I will sing, yes, I will sing praises to Yahweh. 

###### v7 
Hear, Yahweh, when I cry with my voice. Have mercy also on me, and answer me. 

###### v8 
When you said, "Seek my face," my heart said to you, "I will seek your face, Yahweh." 

###### v9 
Don't hide your face from me. Don't put your servant away in anger. You have been my help. Don't abandon me, neither forsake me, God of my salvation. 

###### v10 
When my father and my mother forsake me, then Yahweh will take me up. 

###### v11 
Teach me your way, Yahweh. Lead me in a straight path, because of my enemies. 

###### v12 
Don't deliver me over to the desire of my adversaries, for false witnesses have risen up against me, such as breathe out cruelty. 

###### v13 
I am still confident of this: I will see the goodness of Yahweh in the land of the living. 

###### v14 
Wait for Yahweh. Be strong, and let your heart take courage. Yes, wait for Yahweh.

***
[[Ps-26|← Psalm 26]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-28|Psalm 28 →]]
