# Psalm 25

[[Ps-24|← Psalm 24]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-26|Psalm 26 →]]
***



###### v1 
To you, Yahweh, I lift up my soul. 

###### v2 
My God, I have trusted in you. Don't let me be shamed. Don't let my enemies triumph over me. 

###### v3 
Yes, no one who waits for you will be shamed. They will be shamed who deal treacherously without cause. 

###### v4 
Show me your ways, Yahweh. Teach me your paths. 

###### v5 
Guide me in your truth, and teach me, For you are the God of my salvation, I wait for you all day long. 

###### v6 
Yahweh, remember your tender mercies and your loving kindness, for they are from old times. 

###### v7 
Don't remember the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions. Remember me according to your loving kindness, for your goodness' sake, Yahweh. 

###### v8 
Good and upright is Yahweh, therefore he will instruct sinners in the way. 

###### v9 
He will guide the humble in justice. He will teach the humble his way. 

###### v10 
All the paths of Yahweh are loving kindness and truth to such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. 

###### v11 
For your name's sake, Yahweh, pardon my iniquity, for it is great. 

###### v12 
What man is he who fears Yahweh? He shall instruct him in the way that he shall choose. 

###### v13 
His soul will dwell at ease. His offspring will inherit the land. 

###### v14 
The friendship of Yahweh is with those who fear him. He will show them his covenant. 

###### v15 
My eyes are ever on Yahweh, for he will pluck my feet out of the net. 

###### v16 
Turn to me, and have mercy on me, for I am desolate and afflicted. 

###### v17 
The troubles of my heart are enlarged. Oh bring me out of my distresses. 

###### v18 
Consider my affliction and my travail. Forgive all my sins. 

###### v19 
Consider my enemies, for they are many. They hate me with cruel hatred. 

###### v20 
Oh keep my soul, and deliver me. Let me not be disappointed, for I take refuge in you. 

###### v21 
Let integrity and uprightness preserve me, for I wait for you. 

###### v22 
God, redeem Israel out of all his troubles.

***
[[Ps-24|← Psalm 24]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-26|Psalm 26 →]]
