# Psalm 33

[[Ps-32|← Psalm 32]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-34|Psalm 34 →]]
***



###### v1 
Rejoice in Yahweh, you righteous! Praise is fitting for the upright. 

###### v2 
Give thanks to Yahweh with the lyre. Sing praises to him with the harp of ten strings. 

###### v3 
Sing to him a new song. Play skillfully with a shout of joy! 

###### v4 
For Yahweh's word is right. All his work is done in faithfulness. 

###### v5 
He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of Yahweh. 

###### v6 
By Yahweh's word, the heavens were made: all their army by the breath of his mouth. 

###### v7 
He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses. 

###### v8 
Let all the earth fear Yahweh. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. 

###### v9 
For he spoke, and it was done. He commanded, and it stood firm. 

###### v10 
Yahweh brings the counsel of the nations to nothing. He makes the thoughts of the peoples to be of no effect. 

###### v11 
The counsel of Yahweh stands fast forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. 

###### v12 
Blessed is the nation whose God is Yahweh, the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. 

###### v13 
Yahweh looks from heaven. He sees all the sons of men. 

###### v14 
From the place of his habitation he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth, 

###### v15 
he who fashions all of their hearts; and he considers all of their works. 

###### v16 
There is no king saved by the multitude of an army. A mighty man is not delivered by great strength. 

###### v17 
A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither does he deliver any by his great power. 

###### v18 
Behold, Yahweh's eye is on those who fear him, on those who hope in his loving kindness, 

###### v19 
to deliver their soul from death, to keep them alive in famine. 

###### v20 
Our soul has waited for Yahweh. He is our help and our shield. 

###### v21 
For our heart rejoices in him, because we have trusted in his holy name. 

###### v22 
Let your loving kindness be on us, Yahweh, since we have hoped in you.

***
[[Ps-32|← Psalm 32]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-34|Psalm 34 →]]
