# Psalm 31

[[Ps-30|← Psalm 30]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-32|Psalm 32 →]]
***



###### v1 
In you, Yahweh, I take refuge. Let me never be disappointed. Deliver me in your righteousness. 

###### v2 
Bow down your ear to me. Deliver me speedily. Be to me a strong rock, a house of defense to save me. 

###### v3 
For you are my rock and my fortress, therefore for your name's sake lead me and guide me. 

###### v4 
Pluck me out of the net that they have laid secretly for me, for you are my stronghold. 

###### v5 
Into your hand I commend my spirit. You redeem me, Yahweh, God of truth. 

###### v6 
I hate those who regard lying vanities, but I trust in Yahweh. 

###### v7 
I will be glad and rejoice in your loving kindness, for you have seen my affliction. You have known my soul in adversities. 

###### v8 
You have not shut me up into the hand of the enemy. You have set my feet in a large place. 

###### v9 
Have mercy on me, Yahweh, for I am in distress. My eye, my soul, and my body waste away with grief. 

###### v10 
For my life is spent with sorrow, my years with sighing. My strength fails because of my iniquity. My bones are wasted away. 

###### v11 
Because of all my adversaries I have become utterly contemptible to my neighbors, a horror to my acquaintances. Those who saw me on the street fled from me. 

###### v12 
I am forgotten from their hearts like a dead man. I am like broken pottery. 

###### v13 
For I have heard the slander of many, terror on every side, while they conspire together against me, they plot to take away my life. 

###### v14 
But I trust in you, Yahweh. I said, "You are my God." 

###### v15 
My times are in your hand. Deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me. 

###### v16 
Make your face to shine on your servant. Save me in your loving kindness. 

###### v17 
Let me not be disappointed, Yahweh, for I have called on you. Let the wicked be disappointed. Let them be silent in Sheol. 

###### v18 
Let the lying lips be mute, which speak against the righteous insolently, with pride and contempt. 

###### v19 
Oh how great is your goodness, which you have laid up for those who fear you, which you have worked for those who take refuge in you, before the sons of men! 

###### v20 
In the shelter of your presence you will hide them from the plotting of man. You will keep them secretly in a dwelling away from the strife of tongues. 

###### v21 
Praise be to Yahweh, for he has shown me his marvelous loving kindness in a strong city. 

###### v22 
As for me, I said in my haste, "I am cut off from before your eyes." Nevertheless you heard the voice of my petitions when I cried to you. 

###### v23 
Oh love Yahweh, all you his saints! Yahweh preserves the faithful, and fully recompenses him who behaves arrogantly. 

###### v24 
Be strong, and let your heart take courage, all you who hope in Yahweh.

***
[[Ps-30|← Psalm 30]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-32|Psalm 32 →]]
