# Psalm 37

[[Ps-36|← Psalm 36]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-38|Psalm 38 →]]
***



###### v1 
Don't fret because of evildoers, neither be envious against those who work unrighteousness. 

###### v2 
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither like the green herb. 

###### v3 
Trust in Yahweh, and do good. Dwell in the land, and enjoy safe pasture. 

###### v4 
Also delight yourself in Yahweh, and he will give you the desires of your heart. 

###### v5 
Commit your way to Yahweh. Trust also in him, and he will do this: 

###### v6 
he will make your righteousness shine out like light, and your justice as the noon day sun. 

###### v7 
Rest in Yahweh, and wait patiently for him. Don't fret because of him who prospers in his way, because of the man who makes wicked plots happen. 

###### v8 
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath. Don't fret; it leads only to evildoing. 

###### v9 
For evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for Yahweh shall inherit the land. 

###### v10 
For yet a little while, and the wicked will be no more. Yes, though you look for his place, he isn't there. 

###### v11 
But the humble shall inherit the land, and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace. 

###### v12 
The wicked plots against the just, and gnashes at him with his teeth. 

###### v13 
The Lord will laugh at him, for he sees that his day is coming. 

###### v14 
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, to kill those who are upright on the path. 

###### v15 
Their sword shall enter into their own heart. Their bows shall be broken. 

###### v16 
Better is a little that the righteous has, than the abundance of many wicked. 

###### v17 
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but Yahweh upholds the righteous. 

###### v18 
Yahweh knows the days of the perfect. Their inheritance shall be forever. 

###### v19 
They shall not be disappointed in the time of evil. In the days of famine they shall be satisfied. 

###### v20 
But the wicked shall perish. The enemies of Yahweh shall be like the beauty of the fields. They will vanish-- vanish like smoke. 

###### v21 
The wicked borrow, and don't pay back, but the righteous give generously. 

###### v22 
For such as are blessed by him shall inherit the land. Those who are cursed by him shall be cut off. 

###### v23 
A man's steps are established by Yahweh. He delights in his way. 

###### v24 
Though he stumble, he shall not fall, for Yahweh holds him up with his hand. 

###### v25 
I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his children begging for bread. 

###### v26 
All day long he deals graciously, and lends. His offspring is blessed. 

###### v27 
Depart from evil, and do good. Live securely forever. 

###### v28 
For Yahweh loves justice, and doesn't forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### v29 
The righteous shall inherit the land, and live in it forever. 

###### v30 
The mouth of the righteous talks of wisdom. His tongue speaks justice. 

###### v31 
The law of his God is in his heart. None of his steps shall slide. 

###### v32 
The wicked watch the righteous, and seek to kill him. 

###### v33 
Yahweh will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged. 

###### v34 
Wait for Yahweh, and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land. When the wicked are cut off, you shall see it. 

###### v35 
I have seen the wicked in great power, spreading himself like a green tree in its native soil. 

###### v36 
But he passed away, and behold, he was not. Yes, I sought him, but he could not be found. 

###### v37 
Mark the perfect man, and see the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace. 

###### v38 
As for transgressors, they shall be destroyed together. The future of the wicked shall be cut off. 

###### v39 
But the salvation of the righteous is from Yahweh. He is their stronghold in the time of trouble. 

###### v40 
Yahweh helps them and rescues them. He rescues them from the wicked and saves them, because they have taken refuge in him.

***
[[Ps-36|← Psalm 36]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-38|Psalm 38 →]]
