# Psalm 34

[[Ps-33|← Psalm 33]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-35|Psalm 35 →]]
***



###### v1 
I will bless Yahweh at all times. His praise will always be in my mouth. 

###### v2 
My soul shall boast in Yahweh. The humble shall hear of it and be glad. 

###### v3 
Oh magnify Yahweh with me. Let's exalt his name together. 

###### v4 
I sought Yahweh, and he answered me, and delivered me from all my fears. 

###### v5 
They looked to him, and were radiant. Their faces shall never be covered with shame. 

###### v6 
This poor man cried, and Yahweh heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles. 

###### v7 
Yahweh's angel encamps around those who fear him, and delivers them. 

###### v8 
Oh taste and see that Yahweh is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. 

###### v9 
Oh fear Yahweh, you his saints, for there is no lack with those who fear him. 

###### v10 
The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger, but those who seek Yahweh shall not lack any good thing. 

###### v11 
Come, you children, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of Yahweh. 

###### v12 
Who is someone who desires life, and loves many days, that he may see good? 

###### v13 
Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking lies. 

###### v14 
Depart from evil, and do good. Seek peace, and pursue it. 

###### v15 
Yahweh's eyes are toward the righteous. His ears listen to their cry. 

###### v16 
Yahweh's face is against those who do evil, to cut off their memory from the earth. 

###### v17 
The righteous cry, and Yahweh hears, and delivers them out of all their troubles. 

###### v18 
Yahweh is near to those who have a broken heart, and saves those who have a crushed spirit. 

###### v19 
Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but Yahweh delivers him out of them all. 

###### v20 
He protects all of his bones. Not one of them is broken. 

###### v21 
Evil shall kill the wicked. Those who hate the righteous shall be condemned. 

###### v22 
Yahweh redeems the soul of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him shall be condemned.

***
[[Ps-33|← Psalm 33]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-35|Psalm 35 →]]
