# Psalm 38

[[Ps-37|← Psalm 37]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-39|Psalm 39 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, don't rebuke me in your wrath, neither chasten me in your hot displeasure. 

###### v2 
For your arrows have pierced me, your hand presses hard on me. 

###### v3 
There is no soundness in my flesh because of your indignation, neither is there any health in my bones because of my sin. 

###### v4 
For my iniquities have gone over my head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. 

###### v5 
My wounds are loathsome and corrupt because of my foolishness. 

###### v6 
I am in pain and bowed down greatly. I go mourning all day long. 

###### v7 
For my waist is filled with burning. There is no soundness in my flesh. 

###### v8 
I am faint and severely bruised. I have groaned by reason of the anguish of my heart. 

###### v9 
Lord, all my desire is before you. My groaning is not hidden from you. 

###### v10 
My heart throbs. My strength fails me. As for the light of my eyes, it has also left me. 

###### v11 
My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my plague. My kinsmen stand far away. 

###### v12 
They also who seek after my life lay snares. Those who seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and meditate deceits all day long. 

###### v13 
But I, as a deaf man, don't hear. I am as a mute man who doesn't open his mouth. 

###### v14 
Yes, I am as a man who doesn't hear, in whose mouth are no reproofs. 

###### v15 
For I hope in you, Yahweh. You will answer, Lord my God. 

###### v16 
For I said, "Don't let them gloat over me, or exalt themselves over me when my foot slips." 

###### v17 
For I am ready to fall. My pain is continually before me. 

###### v18 
For I will declare my iniquity. I will be sorry for my sin. 

###### v19 
But my enemies are vigorous and many. Those who hate me without reason are numerous. 

###### v20 
They who render evil for good are also adversaries to me, because I follow what is good. 

###### v21 
Don't forsake me, Yahweh. My God, don't be far from me. 

###### v22 
Hurry to help me, Lord, my salvation.

***
[[Ps-37|← Psalm 37]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-39|Psalm 39 →]]
