# Psalm 44

[[Ps-43|← Psalm 43]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-45|Psalm 45 →]]
***



###### v1 
We have heard with our ears, God; our fathers have told us what work you did in their days, in the days of old. 

###### v2 
You drove out the nations with your hand, but you planted them. You afflicted the peoples, but you spread them abroad. 

###### v3 
For they didn't get the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them; but your right hand, your arm, and the light of your face, because you were favorable to them. 

###### v4 
God, you are my King. Command victories for Jacob! 

###### v5 
Through you, we will push down our adversaries. Through your name, we will tread down those who rise up against us. 

###### v6 
For I will not trust in my bow, neither will my sword save me. 

###### v7 
But you have saved us from our adversaries, and have shamed those who hate us. 

###### v8 
In God we have made our boast all day long. We will give thanks to your name forever. Selah. 

###### v9 
But now you rejected us, and brought us to dishonor, and don't go out with our armies. 

###### v10 
You make us turn back from the adversary. Those who hate us take plunder for themselves. 

###### v11 
You have made us like sheep for food, and have scattered us among the nations. 

###### v12 
You sell your people for nothing, and have gained nothing from their sale. 

###### v13 
You make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scoffing and a derision to those who are around us. 

###### v14 
You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples. 

###### v15 
All day long my dishonor is before me, and shame covers my face, 

###### v16 
at the taunt of one who reproaches and verbally abuses, because of the enemy and the avenger. 

###### v17 
All this has come on us, yet we haven't forgotten you. We haven't been false to your covenant. 

###### v18 
Our heart has not turned back, neither have our steps strayed from your path, 

###### v19 
though you have crushed us in the haunt of jackals, and covered us with the shadow of death. 

###### v20 
If we have forgotten the name of our God, or spread out our hands to a strange god, 

###### v21 
won't God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart. 

###### v22 
Yes, for your sake we are killed all day long. We are regarded as sheep for the slaughter. 

###### v23 
Wake up! Why do you sleep, Lord? Arise! Don't reject us forever. 

###### v24 
Why do you hide your face, and forget our affliction and our oppression? 

###### v25 
For our soul is bowed down to the dust. Our body clings to the earth. 

###### v26 
Rise up to help us. Redeem us for your loving kindness' sake.

***
[[Ps-43|← Psalm 43]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-45|Psalm 45 →]]
