# Psalm 49

[[Ps-48|← Psalm 48]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-50|Psalm 50 →]]
***



###### v1 
Hear this, all you peoples. Listen, all you inhabitants of the world, 

###### v2 
both low and high, rich and poor together. 

###### v3 
My mouth will speak words of wisdom. My heart will utter understanding. 

###### v4 
I will incline my ear to a proverb. I will solve my riddle on the harp. 

###### v5 
Why should I fear in the days of evil, when iniquity at my heels surrounds me? 

###### v6 
Those who trust in their wealth, and boast in the multitude of their riches-- 

###### v7 
none of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give God a ransom for him. 

###### v8 
For the redemption of their life is costly, no payment is ever enough, 

###### v9 
that he should live on forever, that he should not see corruption. 

###### v10 
For he sees that wise men die; likewise the fool and the senseless perish, and leave their wealth to others. 

###### v11 
Their inward thought is that their houses will endure forever, and their dwelling places to all generations. They name their lands after themselves. 

###### v12 
But man, despite his riches, doesn't endure. He is like the animals that perish. 

###### v13 
This is the destiny of those who are foolish, and of those who approve their sayings. Selah. 

###### v14 
They are appointed as a flock for Sheol. Death shall be their shepherd. The upright shall have dominion over them in the morning. Their beauty shall decay in Sheol, far from their mansion. 

###### v15 
But God will redeem my soul from the power of Sheol, for he will receive me. Selah. 

###### v16 
Don't be afraid when a man is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased; 

###### v17 
for when he dies he will carry nothing away. His glory won't descend after him. 

###### v18 
Though while he lived he blessed his soul-- and men praise you when you do well for yourself-- 

###### v19 
he shall go to the generation of his fathers. They shall never see the light. 

###### v20 
A man who has riches without understanding, is like the animals that perish.

***
[[Ps-48|← Psalm 48]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-50|Psalm 50 →]]
