# Psalm 40

[[Ps-39|← Psalm 39]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-41|Psalm 41 →]]
***



###### v1 
I waited patiently for Yahweh. He turned to me, and heard my cry. 

###### v2 
He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay. He set my feet on a rock, and gave me a firm place to stand. 

###### v3 
He has put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in Yahweh. 

###### v4 
Blessed is the man who makes Yahweh his trust, and doesn't respect the proud, nor such as turn away to lies. 

###### v5 
Many, Yahweh, my God, are the wonderful works which you have done, and your thoughts which are toward us. They can't be declared back to you. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be counted. 

###### v6 
Sacrifice and offering you didn't desire. You have opened my ears. You have not required burnt offering and sin offering. 

###### v7 
Then I said, "Behold, I have come. It is written about me in the book in the scroll. 

###### v8 
I delight to do your will, my God. Yes, your law is within my heart." 

###### v9 
I have proclaimed glad news of righteousness in the great assembly. Behold, I will not seal my lips, Yahweh, you know. 

###### v10 
I have not hidden your righteousness within my heart. I have declared your faithfulness and your salvation. I have not concealed your loving kindness and your truth from the great assembly. 

###### v11 
Don't withhold your tender mercies from me, Yahweh. Let your loving kindness and your truth continually preserve me. 

###### v12 
For innumerable evils have surrounded me. My iniquities have overtaken me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of my head. My heart has failed me. 

###### v13 
Be pleased, Yahweh, to deliver me. Hurry to help me, Yahweh. 

###### v14 
Let them be disappointed and confounded together who seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be turned backward and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt. 

###### v15 
Let them be desolate by reason of their shame that tell me, "Aha! Aha!" 

###### v16 
Let all those who seek you rejoice and be glad in you. Let such as love your salvation say continually, "Let Yahweh be exalted!" 

###### v17 
But I am poor and needy. May the Lord think about me. You are my help and my deliverer. Don't delay, my God.

***
[[Ps-39|← Psalm 39]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-41|Psalm 41 →]]
