# Psalm 42

[[Ps-41|← Psalm 41]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-43|Psalm 43 →]]
***



###### v1 
As the deer pants for the water brooks, so my soul pants after you, God. 

###### v2 
My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. When shall I come and appear before God? 

###### v3 
My tears have been my food day and night, while they continually ask me, "Where is your God?" 

###### v4 
These things I remember, and pour out my soul within me, how I used to go with the crowd, and led them to God's house, with the voice of joy and praise, a multitude keeping a holy day. 

###### v5 
Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him for the saving help of his presence. 

###### v6 
My God, my soul is in despair within me. Therefore I remember you from the land of the Jordan, the heights of Hermon, from the hill Mizar. 

###### v7 
Deep calls to deep at the noise of your waterfalls. All your waves and your billows have swept over me. 

###### v8 
Yahweh will command his loving kindness in the daytime. In the night his song shall be with me: a prayer to the God of my life. 

###### v9 
I will ask God, my rock, "Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?" 

###### v10 
As with a sword in my bones, my adversaries reproach me, while they continually ask me, "Where is your God?" 

###### v11 
Why are you in despair, my soul? Why are you disturbed within me? Hope in God! For I shall still praise him, the saving help of my countenance, and my God.

***
[[Ps-41|← Psalm 41]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-43|Psalm 43 →]]
