# Psalm 51

[[Ps-50|← Psalm 50]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-52|Psalm 52 →]]
***



###### v1 
Have mercy on me, God, according to your loving kindness. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. 

###### v2 
Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity. Cleanse me from my sin. 

###### v3 
For I know my transgressions. My sin is constantly before me. 

###### v4 
Against you, and you only, I have sinned, and done that which is evil in your sight, so you may be proved right when you speak, and justified when you judge. 

###### v5 
Behold, I was born in iniquity. My mother conceived me in sin. 

###### v6 
Behold, you desire truth in the inward parts. You teach me wisdom in the inmost place. 

###### v7 
Purify me with hyssop, and I will be clean. Wash me, and I will be whiter than snow. 

###### v8 
Let me hear joy and gladness, that the bones which you have broken may rejoice. 

###### v9 
Hide your face from my sins, and blot out all of my iniquities. 

###### v10 
Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. 

###### v11 
Don't throw me from your presence, and don't take your Holy Spirit from me. 

###### v12 
Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Uphold me with a willing spirit. 

###### v13 
Then I will teach transgressors your ways. Sinners will be converted to you. 

###### v14 
Deliver me from the guilt of bloodshed, O God, the God of my salvation. My tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. 

###### v15 
Lord, open my lips. My mouth will declare your praise. 

###### v16 
For you don't delight in sacrifice, or else I would give it. You have no pleasure in burnt offering. 

###### v17 
The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. O God, you will not despise a broken and contrite heart. 

###### v18 
Do well in your good pleasure to Zion. Build the walls of Jerusalem. 

###### v19 
Then you will delight in the sacrifices of righteousness, in burnt offerings and in whole burnt offerings. Then they will offer bulls on your altar.

***
[[Ps-50|← Psalm 50]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-52|Psalm 52 →]]
