# Psalm 55

[[Ps-54|← Psalm 54]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-56|Psalm 56 →]]
***



###### v1 
Listen to my prayer, God. Don't hide yourself from my supplication. 

###### v2 
Attend to me, and answer me. I am restless in my complaint, and moan 

###### v3 
because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked. For they bring suffering on me. In anger they hold a grudge against me. 

###### v4 
My heart is severely pained within me. The terrors of death have fallen on me. 

###### v5 
Fearfulness and trembling have come on me. Horror has overwhelmed me. 

###### v6 
I said, "Oh that I had wings like a dove! Then I would fly away, and be at rest. 

###### v7 
Behold, then I would wander far off. I would lodge in the wilderness." Selah. 

###### v8 
"I would hurry to a shelter from the stormy wind and storm." 

###### v9 
Confuse them, Lord, and confound their language, for I have seen violence and strife in the city. 

###### v10 
Day and night they prowl around on its walls. Malice and abuse are also within her. 

###### v11 
Destructive forces are within her. Threats and lies don't depart from her streets. 

###### v12 
For it was not an enemy who insulted me, then I could have endured it. Neither was it he who hated me who raised himself up against me, then I would have hidden myself from him. 

###### v13 
But it was you, a man like me, my companion, and my familiar friend. 

###### v14 
We took sweet fellowship together. We walked in God's house with company. 

###### v15 
Let death come suddenly on them. Let them go down alive into Sheol. For wickedness is among them, in their dwelling. 

###### v16 
As for me, I will call on God. Yahweh will save me. 

###### v17 
Evening, morning, and at noon, I will cry out in distress. He will hear my voice. 

###### v18 
He has redeemed my soul in peace from the battle that was against me, although there are many who oppose me. 

###### v19 
God, who is enthroned forever, will hear and answer them. Selah. They never change and don't fear God. 

###### v20 
He raises his hands against his friends. He has violated his covenant. 

###### v21 
His mouth was smooth as butter, but his heart was war. His words were softer than oil, yet they were drawn swords. 

###### v22 
Cast your burden on Yahweh and he will sustain you. He will never allow the righteous to be moved. 

###### v23 
But you, God, will bring them down into the pit of destruction. Bloodthirsty and deceitful men shall not live out half their days, but I will trust in you.

***
[[Ps-54|← Psalm 54]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-56|Psalm 56 →]]
