# Psalm 50

[[Ps-49|← Psalm 49]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-51|Psalm 51 →]]
***



###### v1 
The Mighty One, God, Yahweh, speaks, and calls the earth from sunrise to sunset. 

###### v2 
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines out. 

###### v3 
Our God comes, and does not keep silent. A fire devours before him. It is very stormy around him. 

###### v4 
He calls to the heavens above, to the earth, that he may judge his people: 

###### v5 
"Gather my saints together to me, those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice." 

###### v6 
The heavens shall declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge. Selah. 

###### v7 
"Hear, my people, and I will speak. Israel, I will testify against you. I am God, your God. 

###### v8 
I don't rebuke you for your sacrifices. Your burnt offerings are continually before me. 

###### v9 
I have no need for a bull from your stall, nor male goats from your pens. 

###### v10 
For every animal of the forest is mine, and the livestock on a thousand hills. 

###### v11 
I know all the birds of the mountains. The wild animals of the field are mine. 

###### v12 
If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all that is in it. 

###### v13 
Will I eat the meat of bulls, or drink the blood of goats? 

###### v14 
Offer to God the sacrifice of thanksgiving. Pay your vows to the Most High. 

###### v15 
Call on me in the day of trouble. I will deliver you, and you will honor me." 

###### v16 
But to the wicked God says, "What right do you have to declare my statutes, that you have taken my covenant on your lips, 

###### v17 
since you hate instruction, and throw my words behind you? 

###### v18 
When you saw a thief, you consented with him, and have participated with adulterers. 

###### v19 
"You give your mouth to evil. Your tongue frames deceit. 

###### v20 
You sit and speak against your brother. You slander your own mother's son. 

###### v21 
You have done these things, and I kept silent. You thought that I was just like you. I will rebuke you, and accuse you in front of your eyes. 

###### v22 
"Now consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you into pieces, and there be no one to deliver. 

###### v23 
Whoever offers the sacrifice of thanksgiving glorifies me, and prepares his way so that I will show God's salvation to him."

***
[[Ps-49|← Psalm 49]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-51|Psalm 51 →]]
