# Psalm 69

[[Ps-68|← Psalm 68]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-70|Psalm 70 →]]
***



###### v1 
Save me, God, for the waters have come up to my neck! 

###### v2 
I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold. I have come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me. 

###### v3 
I am weary with my crying. My throat is dry. My eyes fail looking for my God. 

###### v4 
Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head. Those who want to cut me off, being my enemies wrongfully, are mighty. I have to restore what I didn't take away. 

###### v5 
God, you know my foolishness. My sins aren't hidden from you. 

###### v6 
Don't let those who wait for you be shamed through me, Lord Yahweh of Armies. Don't let those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, God of Israel. 

###### v7 
Because for your sake, I have borne reproach. Shame has covered my face. 

###### v8 
I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's children. 

###### v9 
For the zeal of your house consumes me. The reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. 

###### v10 
When I wept and I fasted, that was to my reproach. 

###### v11 
When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them. 

###### v12 
Those who sit in the gate talk about me. I am the song of the drunkards. 

###### v13 
But as for me, my prayer is to you, Yahweh, in an acceptable time. God, in the abundance of your loving kindness, answer me in the truth of your salvation. 

###### v14 
Deliver me out of the mire, and don't let me sink. Let me be delivered from those who hate me, and out of the deep waters. 

###### v15 
Don't let the flood waters overwhelm me, neither let the deep swallow me up. Don't let the pit shut its mouth on me. 

###### v16 
Answer me, Yahweh, for your loving kindness is good. According to the multitude of your tender mercies, turn to me. 

###### v17 
Don't hide your face from your servant, for I am in distress. Answer me speedily! 

###### v18 
Draw near to my soul and redeem it. Ransom me because of my enemies. 

###### v19 
You know my reproach, my shame, and my dishonor. My adversaries are all before you. 

###### v20 
Reproach has broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness. I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; for comforters, but I found none. 

###### v21 
They also gave me poison for my food. In my thirst, they gave me vinegar to drink. 

###### v22 
Let their table before them become a snare. May it become a retribution and a trap. 

###### v23 
Let their eyes be darkened, so that they can't see. Let their backs be continually bent. 

###### v24 
Pour out your indignation on them. Let the fierceness of your anger overtake them. 

###### v25 
Let their habitation be desolate. Let no one dwell in their tents. 

###### v26 
For they persecute him whom you have wounded. They tell of the sorrow of those whom you have hurt. 

###### v27 
Charge them with crime upon crime. Don't let them come into your righteousness. 

###### v28 
Let them be blotted out of the book of life, and not be written with the righteous. 

###### v29 
But I am in pain and distress. Let your salvation, God, protect me. 

###### v30 
I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving. 

###### v31 
It will please Yahweh better than an ox, or a bull that has horns and hoofs. 

###### v32 
The humble have seen it, and are glad. You who seek after God, let your heart live. 

###### v33 
For Yahweh hears the needy, and doesn't despise his captive people. 

###### v34 
Let heaven and earth praise him; the seas, and everything that moves therein! 

###### v35 
For God will save Zion, and build the cities of Judah. They shall settle there, and own it. 

###### v36 
The children also of his servants shall inherit it. Those who love his name shall dwell therein.

***
[[Ps-68|← Psalm 68]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-70|Psalm 70 →]]
