# Psalm 68

[[Ps-67|← Psalm 67]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-69|Psalm 69 →]]
***



###### v1 
Let God arise! Let his enemies be scattered! Let them who hate him also flee before him. 

###### v2 
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melts before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God. 

###### v3 
But let the righteous be glad. Let them rejoice before God. Yes, let them rejoice with gladness. 

###### v4 
Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Extol him who rides on the clouds: to Yah, his name! Rejoice before him! 

###### v5 
A father of the fatherless, and a defender of the widows, is God in his holy habitation. 

###### v6 
God sets the lonely in families. He brings out the prisoners with singing, but the rebellious dwell in a sun-scorched land. 

###### v7 
God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness... Selah. 

###### v8 
The earth trembled. The sky also poured down rain at the presence of the God of Sinai-- at the presence of God, the God of Israel. 

###### v9 
You, God, sent a plentiful rain. You confirmed your inheritance when it was weary. 

###### v10 
Your congregation lived therein. You, God, prepared your goodness for the poor. 

###### v11 
The Lord announced the word. The ones who proclaim it are a great company. 

###### v12 
"Kings of armies flee! They flee!" She who waits at home divides the plunder, 

###### v13 
while you sleep among the camp fires, the wings of a dove sheathed with silver, her feathers with shining gold. 

###### v14 
When the Almighty scattered kings in her, it snowed on Zalmon. 

###### v15 
The mountains of Bashan are majestic mountains. The mountains of Bashan are rugged. 

###### v16 
Why do you look in envy, you rugged mountains, at the mountain where God chooses to reign? Yes, Yahweh will dwell there forever. 

###### v17 
The chariots of God are tens of thousands and thousands of thousands. The Lord is among them, from Sinai, into the sanctuary. 

###### v18 
You have ascended on high. You have led away captives. You have received gifts among people, yes, among the rebellious also, that Yah God might dwell there. 

###### v19 
Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears our burdens, even the God who is our salvation. Selah. 

###### v20 
God is to us a God of deliverance. To Yahweh, the Lord, belongs escape from death. 

###### v21 
But God will strike through the head of his enemies, the hairy scalp of such a one as still continues in his guiltiness. 

###### v22 
The Lord said, "I will bring you again from Bashan, I will bring you again from the depths of the sea, 

###### v23 
that you may crush them, dipping your foot in blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from your enemies." 

###### v24 
They have seen your processions, God, even the processions of my God, my King, into the sanctuary. 

###### v25 
The singers went before, the minstrels followed after, among the ladies playing with tambourines, 

###### v26 
"Bless God in the congregations, even the Lord in the assembly of Israel!" 

###### v27 
There is little Benjamin, their ruler, the princes of Judah, their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali. 

###### v28 
Your God has commanded your strength. Strengthen, God, that which you have done for us. 

###### v29 
Because of your temple at Jerusalem, kings shall bring presents to you. 

###### v30 
Rebuke the wild animal of the reeds, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the peoples. Being humbled, may it bring bars of silver. Scatter the nations that delight in war. 

###### v31 
Princes shall come out of Egypt. Ethiopia shall hurry to stretch out her hands to God. 

###### v32 
Sing to God, you kingdoms of the earth! Sing praises to the Lord-- Selah-- 

###### v33 
to him who rides on the heaven of heavens, which are of old; behold, he utters his voice, a mighty voice. 

###### v34 
Ascribe strength to God! His excellency is over Israel, his strength is in the skies. 

###### v35 
You are awesome, God, in your sanctuaries. The God of Israel gives strength and power to his people. Praise be to God!

***
[[Ps-67|← Psalm 67]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-69|Psalm 69 →]]
