# Psalm 73

[[Ps-72|← Psalm 72]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-74|Psalm 74 →]]
***



###### v1 
Surely God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. 

###### v2 
But as for me, my feet were almost gone. My steps had nearly slipped. 

###### v3 
For I was envious of the arrogant, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 

###### v4 
For there are no struggles in their death, but their strength is firm. 

###### v5 
They are free from burdens of men, neither are they plagued like other men. 

###### v6 
Therefore pride is like a chain around their neck. Violence covers them like a garment. 

###### v7 
Their eyes bulge with fat. Their minds pass the limits of conceit. 

###### v8 
They scoff and speak with malice. In arrogance, they threaten oppression. 

###### v9 
They have set their mouth in the heavens. Their tongue walks through the earth. 

###### v10 
Therefore their people return to them, and they drink up waters of abundance. 

###### v11 
They say, "How does God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?" 

###### v12 
Behold, these are the wicked. Being always at ease, they increase in riches. 

###### v13 
Surely I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocence, 

###### v14 
For all day long I have been plagued, and punished every morning. 

###### v15 
If I had said, "I will speak thus"; behold, I would have betrayed the generation of your children. 

###### v16 
When I tried to understand this, it was too painful for me, 

###### v17 
until I entered God's sanctuary, and considered their latter end. 

###### v18 
Surely you set them in slippery places. You throw them down to destruction. 

###### v19 
How they are suddenly destroyed! They are completely swept away with terrors. 

###### v20 
As a dream when one wakes up, so, Lord, when you awake, you will despise their fantasies. 

###### v21 
For my soul was grieved. I was embittered in my heart. 

###### v22 
I was so senseless and ignorant. I was a brute beast before you. 

###### v23 
Nevertheless, I am continually with you. You have held my right hand. 

###### v24 
You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward receive me to glory. 

###### v25 
Whom do I have in heaven? There is no one on earth whom I desire besides you. 

###### v26 
My flesh and my heart fails, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. 

###### v27 
For, behold, those who are far from you shall perish. You have destroyed all those who are unfaithful to you. 

###### v28 
But it is good for me to come close to God. I have made the Lord Yahweh my refuge, that I may tell of all your works.

***
[[Ps-72|← Psalm 72]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-74|Psalm 74 →]]
