# Psalm 74

[[Ps-73|← Psalm 73]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-75|Psalm 75 →]]
***



###### v1 
God, why have you rejected us forever? Why does your anger smolder against the sheep of your pasture? 

###### v2 
Remember your congregation, which you purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your inheritance: Mount Zion, in which you have lived. 

###### v3 
Lift up your feet to the perpetual ruins, all the evil that the enemy has done in the sanctuary. 

###### v4 
Your adversaries have roared in the middle of your assembly. They have set up their standards as signs. 

###### v5 
They behaved like men wielding axes, cutting through a thicket of trees. 

###### v6 
Now they break all its carved work down with hatchet and hammers. 

###### v7 
They have burned your sanctuary to the ground. They have profaned the dwelling place of your Name. 

###### v8 
They said in their heart, "We will crush them completely." They have burned up all the places in the land where God was worshiped. 

###### v9 
We see no miraculous signs. There is no longer any prophet, neither is there among us anyone who knows how long. 

###### v10 
How long, God, shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme your name forever? 

###### v11 
Why do you draw back your hand, even your right hand? Take it from your chest and consume them! 

###### v12 
Yet God is my King of old, working salvation throughout the earth. 

###### v13 
You divided the sea by your strength. You broke the heads of the sea monsters in the waters. 

###### v14 
You broke the heads of Leviathan in pieces. You gave him as food to people and desert creatures. 

###### v15 
You opened up spring and stream. You dried up mighty rivers. 

###### v16 
The day is yours, the night is also yours. You have prepared the light and the sun. 

###### v17 
You have set all the boundaries of the earth. You have made summer and winter. 

###### v18 
Remember this, that the enemy has mocked you, Yahweh. Foolish people have blasphemed your name. 

###### v19 
Don't deliver the soul of your dove to wild beasts. Don't forget the life of your poor forever. 

###### v20 
Honor your covenant, for haunts of violence fill the dark places of the earth. 

###### v21 
Don't let the oppressed return ashamed. Let the poor and needy praise your name. 

###### v22 
Arise, God! Plead your own cause. Remember how the foolish man mocks you all day. 

###### v23 
Don't forget the voice of your adversaries. The tumult of those who rise up against you ascends continually.

***
[[Ps-73|← Psalm 73]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-75|Psalm 75 →]]
