# Psalm 77

[[Ps-76|← Psalm 76]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-78|Psalm 78 →]]
***



###### v1 
My cry goes to God! Indeed, I cry to God for help, and for him to listen to me. 

###### v2 
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. My hand was stretched out in the night, and didn't get tired. My soul refused to be comforted. 

###### v3 
I remember God, and I groan. I complain, and my spirit is overwhelmed. Selah. 

###### v4 
You hold my eyelids open. I am so troubled that I can't speak. 

###### v5 
I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times. 

###### v6 
I remember my song in the night. I consider in my own heart; my spirit diligently inquires: 

###### v7 
"Will the Lord reject us forever? Will he be favorable no more? 

###### v8 
Has his loving kindness vanished forever? Does his promise fail for generations? 

###### v9 
Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he, in anger, withheld his compassion?" Selah. 

###### v10 
Then I thought, "I will appeal to this: the years of the right hand of the Most High." 

###### v11 
I will remember Yah's deeds; for I will remember your wonders of old. 

###### v12 
I will also meditate on all your work, and consider your doings. 

###### v13 
Your way, God, is in the sanctuary. What god is great like God? 

###### v14 
You are the God who does wonders. You have made your strength known among the peoples. 

###### v15 
You have redeemed your people with your arm, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah. 

###### v16 
The waters saw you, God. The waters saw you, and they writhed. The depths also convulsed. 

###### v17 
The clouds poured out water. The skies resounded with thunder. Your arrows also flashed around. 

###### v18 
The voice of your thunder was in the whirlwind. The lightnings lit up the world. The earth trembled and shook. 

###### v19 
Your way was through the sea; your paths through the great waters. Your footsteps were not known. 

###### v20 
You led your people like a flock, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.

***
[[Ps-76|← Psalm 76]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-78|Psalm 78 →]]
