# Psalm 72

[[Ps-71|← Psalm 71]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-73|Psalm 73 →]]
***



###### v1 
God, give the king your justice; your righteousness to the royal son. 

###### v2 
He will judge your people with righteousness, and your poor with justice. 

###### v3 
The mountains shall bring prosperity to the people. The hills bring the fruit of righteousness. 

###### v4 
He will judge the poor of the people. He will save the children of the needy, and will break the oppressor in pieces. 

###### v5 
They shall fear you while the sun endures; and as long as the moon, throughout all generations. 

###### v6 
He will come down like rain on the mown grass, as showers that water the earth. 

###### v7 
In his days, the righteous shall flourish, and abundance of peace, until the moon is no more. 

###### v8 
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, from the River to the ends of the earth. 

###### v9 
Those who dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him. His enemies shall lick the dust. 

###### v10 
The kings of Tarshish and of the islands will bring tribute. The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts. 

###### v11 
Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him. 

###### v12 
For he will deliver the needy when he cries; the poor, who has no helper. 

###### v13 
He will have pity on the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy. 

###### v14 
He will redeem their soul from oppression and violence. Their blood will be precious in his sight. 

###### v15 
They shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba. Men shall pray for him continually. They shall bless him all day long. 

###### v16 
Abundance of grain shall be throughout the land. Its fruit sways like Lebanon. Let it flourish, thriving like the grass of the field. 

###### v17 
His name endures forever. His name continues as long as the sun. Men shall be blessed by him. All nations will call him blessed. 

###### v18 
Praise be to Yahweh God, the God of Israel, who alone does marvelous deeds. 

###### v19 
Blessed be his glorious name forever! Let the whole earth be filled with his glory! Amen and amen. 

###### v20 
This ends the prayers by David, the son of Jesse.

***
[[Ps-71|← Psalm 71]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-73|Psalm 73 →]]
