# Psalm 71

[[Ps-70|← Psalm 70]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-72|Psalm 72 →]]
***



###### v1 
In you, Yahweh, I take refuge. Never let me be disappointed. 

###### v2 
Deliver me in your righteousness, and rescue me. Turn your ear to me, and save me. 

###### v3 
Be to me a rock of refuge to which I may always go. Give the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. 

###### v4 
Rescue me, my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man. 

###### v5 
For you are my hope, Lord Yahweh, my confidence from my youth. 

###### v6 
I have relied on you from the womb. You are he who took me out of my mother's womb. I will always praise you. 

###### v7 
I am a marvel to many, but you are my strong refuge. 

###### v8 
My mouth shall be filled with your praise, with your honor all day long. 

###### v9 
Don't reject me in my old age. Don't forsake me when my strength fails. 

###### v10 
For my enemies talk about me. Those who watch for my soul conspire together, 

###### v11 
saying, "God has forsaken him. Pursue and take him, for no one will rescue him." 

###### v12 
God, don't be far from me. My God, hurry to help me. 

###### v13 
Let my accusers be disappointed and consumed. Let them be covered with disgrace and scorn who want to harm me. 

###### v14 
But I will always hope, and will add to all of your praise. 

###### v15 
My mouth will tell about your righteousness, and of your salvation all day, though I don't know its full measure. 

###### v16 
I will come with the mighty acts of the Lord Yahweh. I will make mention of your righteousness, even of yours alone. 

###### v17 
God, you have taught me from my youth. Until now, I have declared your wondrous works. 

###### v18 
Yes, even when I am old and gray-haired, God, don't forsake me, until I have declared your strength to the next generation, your might to everyone who is to come. 

###### v19 
God, your righteousness also reaches to the heavens. You have done great things. God, who is like you? 

###### v20 
You, who have shown us many and bitter troubles, you will let me live. You will bring us up again from the depths of the earth. 

###### v21 
Increase my honor and comfort me again. 

###### v22 
I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, my God. I sing praises to you with the lyre, Holy One of Israel. 

###### v23 
My lips shall shout for joy! My soul, which you have redeemed, sings praises to you! 

###### v24 
My tongue will also talk about your righteousness all day long, for they are disappointed, and they are confounded, who want to harm me.

***
[[Ps-70|← Psalm 70]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-72|Psalm 72 →]]
