# Psalm 81

[[Ps-80|← Psalm 80]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-82|Psalm 82 →]]
***



###### v1 
Sing aloud to God, our strength! Make a joyful shout to the God of Jacob! 

###### v2 
Raise a song, and bring here the tambourine, the pleasant lyre with the harp. 

###### v3 
Blow the trumpet at the New Moon, at the full moon, on our feast day. 

###### v4 
For it is a statute for Israel, an ordinance of the God of Jacob. 

###### v5 
He appointed it in Joseph for a covenant, when he went out over the land of Egypt, I heard a language that I didn't know. 

###### v6 
"I removed his shoulder from the burden. His hands were freed from the basket. 

###### v7 
You called in trouble, and I delivered you. I answered you in the secret place of thunder. I tested you at the waters of Meribah." Selah. 

###### v8 
"Hear, my people, and I will testify to you, Israel, if you would listen to me! 

###### v9 
There shall be no strange god in you, neither shall you worship any foreign god. 

###### v10 
I am Yahweh, your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide, and I will fill it. 

###### v11 
But my people didn't listen to my voice. Israel desired none of me. 

###### v12 
So I let them go after the stubbornness of their hearts, that they might walk in their own counsels. 

###### v13 
Oh that my people would listen to me, that Israel would walk in my ways! 

###### v14 
I would soon subdue their enemies, and turn my hand against their adversaries. 

###### v15 
The haters of Yahweh would cringe before him, and their punishment would last forever. 

###### v16 
But he would have also fed them with the finest of the wheat. I will satisfy you with honey out of the rock."

***
[[Ps-80|← Psalm 80]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-82|Psalm 82 →]]
