# Psalm 80

[[Ps-79|← Psalm 79]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-81|Psalm 81 →]]
***



###### v1 
Hear us, Shepherd of Israel, you who lead Joseph like a flock, you who sit above the cherubim, shine out. 

###### v2 
Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh, stir up your might! Come to save us! 

###### v3 
Turn us again, God. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved. 

###### v4 
Yahweh God of Armies, how long will you be angry against the prayer of your people? 

###### v5 
You have fed them with the bread of tears, and given them tears to drink in large measure. 

###### v6 
You make us a source of contention to our neighbors. Our enemies laugh among themselves. 

###### v7 
Turn us again, God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved. 

###### v8 
You brought a vine out of Egypt. You drove out the nations, and planted it. 

###### v9 
You cleared the ground for it. It took deep root, and filled the land. 

###### v10 
The mountains were covered with its shadow. Its boughs were like God's cedars. 

###### v11 
It sent out its branches to the sea, its shoots to the River. 

###### v12 
Why have you broken down its walls, so that all those who pass by the way pluck it? 

###### v13 
The boar out of the wood ravages it. The wild animals of the field feed on it. 

###### v14 
Turn again, we beg you, God of Armies. Look down from heaven, and see, and visit this vine, 

###### v15 
the stock which your right hand planted, the branch that you made strong for yourself. 

###### v16 
It's burned with fire. It's cut down. They perish at your rebuke. 

###### v17 
Let your hand be on the man of your right hand, on the son of man whom you made strong for yourself. 

###### v18 
So we will not turn away from you. Revive us, and we will call on your name. 

###### v19 
Turn us again, Yahweh God of Armies. Cause your face to shine, and we will be saved.

***
[[Ps-79|← Psalm 79]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-81|Psalm 81 →]]
