# Psalm 89

[[Ps-88|← Psalm 88]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-90|Psalm 90 →]]
***



###### v1 
I will sing of the loving kindness of Yahweh forever. With my mouth, I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. 

###### v2 
I indeed declare, "Love stands firm forever. You established the heavens. Your faithfulness is in them." 

###### v3 
"I have made a covenant with my chosen one, I have sworn to David, my servant, 

###### v4 
'I will establish your offspring forever, and build up your throne to all generations.'" Selah. 

###### v5 
The heavens will praise your wonders, Yahweh, your faithfulness also in the assembly of the holy ones. 

###### v6 
For who in the skies can be compared to Yahweh? Who among the sons of the heavenly beings is like Yahweh, 

###### v7 
a very awesome God in the council of the holy ones, to be feared above all those who are around him? 

###### v8 
Yahweh, God of Armies, who is a mighty one, like you? Yah, your faithfulness is around you. 

###### v9 
You rule the pride of the sea. When its waves rise up, you calm them. 

###### v10 
You have broken Rahab in pieces, like one of the slain. You have scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. 

###### v11 
The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours, the world and its fullness. You have founded them. 

###### v12 
You have created the north and the south. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name. 

###### v13 
You have a mighty arm. Your hand is strong, and your right hand is exalted. 

###### v14 
Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loving kindness and truth go before your face. 

###### v15 
Blessed are the people who learn to acclaim you. They walk in the light of your presence, Yahweh. 

###### v16 
In your name they rejoice all day. In your righteousness, they are exalted. 

###### v17 
For you are the glory of their strength. In your favor, our horn will be exalted. 

###### v18 
For our shield belongs to Yahweh, our king to the Holy One of Israel. 

###### v19 
Then you spoke in vision to your saints, and said, "I have given strength to the warrior. I have exalted a young man from the people. 

###### v20 
I have found David, my servant. I have anointed him with my holy oil, 

###### v21 
with whom my hand shall be established. My arm will also strengthen him. 

###### v22 
No enemy will tax him. No wicked man will oppress him. 

###### v23 
I will beat down his adversaries before him, and strike those who hate him. 

###### v24 
But my faithfulness and my loving kindness will be with him. In my name, his horn will be exalted. 

###### v25 
I will set his hand also on the sea, and his right hand on the rivers. 

###### v26 
He will call to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the rock of my salvation!' 

###### v27 
I will also appoint him my firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. 

###### v28 
I will keep my loving kindness for him forever more. My covenant will stand firm with him. 

###### v29 
I will also make his offspring endure forever, and his throne as the days of heaven. 

###### v30 
If his children forsake my law, and don't walk in my ordinances; 

###### v31 
if they break my statutes, and don't keep my commandments; 

###### v32 
then I will punish their sin with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes. 

###### v33 
But I will not completely take my loving kindness from him, nor allow my faithfulness to fail. 

###### v34 
I will not break my covenant, nor alter what my lips have uttered. 

###### v35 
Once I have sworn by my holiness, I will not lie to David. 

###### v36 
His offspring will endure forever, his throne like the sun before me. 

###### v37 
It will be established forever like the moon, the faithful witness in the sky." Selah. 

###### v38 
But you have rejected and spurned. You have been angry with your anointed. 

###### v39 
You have renounced the covenant of your servant. You have defiled his crown in the dust. 

###### v40 
You have broken down all his hedges. You have brought his strongholds to ruin. 

###### v41 
All who pass by the way rob him. He has become a reproach to his neighbors. 

###### v42 
You have exalted the right hand of his adversaries. You have made all of his enemies rejoice. 

###### v43 
Yes, you turn back the edge of his sword, and haven't supported him in battle. 

###### v44 
You have ended his splendor, and thrown his throne down to the ground. 

###### v45 
You have shortened the days of his youth. You have covered him with shame. Selah. 

###### v46 
How long, Yahweh? Will you hide yourself forever? Will your wrath burn like fire? 

###### v47 
Remember how short my time is, for what vanity you have created all the children of men! 

###### v48 
What man is he who shall live and not see death, who shall deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah. 

###### v49 
Lord, where are your former loving kindnesses, which you swore to David in your faithfulness? 

###### v50 
Remember, Lord, the reproach of your servants, how I bear in my heart the taunts of all the mighty peoples, 

###### v51 
With which your enemies have mocked, Yahweh, with which they have mocked the footsteps of your anointed one. 

###### v52 
Blessed be Yahweh forever more. Amen, and Amen.

***
[[Ps-88|← Psalm 88]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-90|Psalm 90 →]]
