# Psalm 88

[[Ps-87|← Psalm 87]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-89|Psalm 89 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, the God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before you. 

###### v2 
Let my prayer enter into your presence. Turn your ear to my cry. 

###### v3 
For my soul is full of troubles. My life draws near to Sheol. 

###### v4 
I am counted among those who go down into the pit. I am like a man who has no help, 

###### v5 
set apart among the dead, like the slain who lie in the grave, whom you remember no more. They are cut off from your hand. 

###### v6 
You have laid me in the lowest pit, in the darkest depths. 

###### v7 
Your wrath lies heavily on me. You have afflicted me with all your waves. Selah. 

###### v8 
You have taken my friends from me. You have made me an abomination to them. I am confined, and I can't escape. 

###### v9 
My eyes are dim from grief. I have called on you daily, Yahweh. I have spread out my hands to you. 

###### v10 
Do you show wonders to the dead? Do the departed spirits rise up and praise you? Selah. 

###### v11 
Is your loving kindness declared in the grave? Or your faithfulness in Destruction? 

###### v12 
Are your wonders made known in the dark? Or your righteousness in the land of forgetfulness? 

###### v13 
But to you, Yahweh, I have cried. In the morning, my prayer comes before you. 

###### v14 
Yahweh, why do you reject my soul? Why do you hide your face from me? 

###### v15 
I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up. While I suffer your terrors, I am distracted. 

###### v16 
Your fierce wrath has gone over me. Your terrors have cut me off. 

###### v17 
They came around me like water all day long. They completely engulfed me. 

###### v18 
You have put lover and friend far from me, and my friends into darkness.

***
[[Ps-87|← Psalm 87]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-89|Psalm 89 →]]
