# Psalm 83

[[Ps-82|← Psalm 82]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-84|Psalm 84 →]]
***



###### v1 
God, don't keep silent. Don't keep silent, and don't be still, God. 

###### v2 
For, behold, your enemies are stirred up. Those who hate you have lifted up their heads. 

###### v3 
They conspire with cunning against your people. They plot against your cherished ones. 

###### v4 
"Come," they say, "let's destroy them as a nation, that the name of Israel may be remembered no more." 

###### v5 
For they have conspired together with one mind. They form an alliance against you. 

###### v6 
The tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites; Moab, and the Hagrites; 

###### v7 
Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek; Philistia with the inhabitants of Tyre; 

###### v8 
Assyria also is joined with them. They have helped the children of Lot. Selah. 

###### v9 
Do to them as you did to Midian, as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the river Kishon; 

###### v10 
who perished at Endor, who became as dung for the earth. 

###### v11 
Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, yes, all their princes like Zebah and Zalmunna, 

###### v12 
who said, "Let's take possession of God's pasture lands." 

###### v13 
My God, make them like tumbleweed, like chaff before the wind. 

###### v14 
As the fire that burns the forest, as the flame that sets the mountains on fire, 

###### v15 
so pursue them with your tempest, and terrify them with your storm. 

###### v16 
Fill their faces with confusion, that they may seek your name, Yahweh. 

###### v17 
Let them be disappointed and dismayed forever. Yes, let them be confounded and perish; 

###### v18 
that they may know that you alone, whose name is Yahweh, are the Most High over all the earth.

***
[[Ps-82|← Psalm 82]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-84|Psalm 84 →]]
