# Psalm 86

[[Ps-85|← Psalm 85]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-87|Psalm 87 →]]
***



###### v1 
Hear, Yahweh, and answer me, for I am poor and needy. 

###### v2 
Preserve my soul, for I am godly. You, my God, save your servant who trusts in you. 

###### v3 
Be merciful to me, Lord, for I call to you all day long. 

###### v4 
Bring joy to the soul of your servant, for to you, Lord, do I lift up my soul. 

###### v5 
For you, Lord, are good, and ready to forgive, abundant in loving kindness to all those who call on you. 

###### v6 
Hear, Yahweh, my prayer. Listen to the voice of my petitions. 

###### v7 
In the day of my trouble I will call on you, for you will answer me. 

###### v8 
There is no one like you among the gods, Lord, nor any deeds like your deeds. 

###### v9 
All nations you have made will come and worship before you, Lord. They shall glorify your name. 

###### v10 
For you are great, and do wondrous things. You are God alone. 

###### v11 
Teach me your way, Yahweh. I will walk in your truth. Make my heart undivided to fear your name. 

###### v12 
I will praise you, Lord my God, with my whole heart. I will glorify your name forever more. 

###### v13 
For your loving kindness is great toward me. You have delivered my soul from the lowest Sheol. 

###### v14 
God, the proud have risen up against me. A company of violent men have sought after my soul, and they don't hold regard for you before them. 

###### v15 
But you, Lord, are a merciful and gracious God, slow to anger, and abundant in loving kindness and truth. 

###### v16 
Turn to me, and have mercy on me! Give your strength to your servant. Save the son of your servant. 

###### v17 
Show me a sign of your goodness, that those who hate me may see it, and be shamed, because you, Yahweh, have helped me, and comforted me.

***
[[Ps-85|← Psalm 85]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-87|Psalm 87 →]]
