# Psalm 91

[[Ps-90|← Psalm 90]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-92|Psalm 92 →]]
***



###### v1 
He who dwells in the secret place of the Most High will rest in the shadow of the Almighty. 

###### v2 
I will say of Yahweh, "He is my refuge and my fortress; my God, in whom I trust." 

###### v3 
For he will deliver you from the snare of the fowler, and from the deadly pestilence. 

###### v4 
He will cover you with his feathers. Under his wings you will take refuge. His faithfulness is your shield and rampart. 

###### v5 
You shall not be afraid of the terror by night, nor of the arrow that flies by day, 

###### v6 
nor of the pestilence that walks in darkness, nor of the destruction that wastes at noonday. 

###### v7 
A thousand may fall at your side, and ten thousand at your right hand; but it will not come near you. 

###### v8 
You will only look with your eyes, and see the recompense of the wicked. 

###### v9 
Because you have made Yahweh your refuge, and the Most High your dwelling place, 

###### v10 
no evil shall happen to you, neither shall any plague come near your dwelling. 

###### v11 
For he will put his angels in charge of you, to guard you in all your ways. 

###### v12 
They will bear you up in their hands, so that you won't dash your foot against a stone. 

###### v13 
You will tread on the lion and cobra. You will trample the young lion and the serpent underfoot. 

###### v14 
"Because he has set his love on me, therefore I will deliver him. I will set him on high, because he has known my name. 

###### v15 
He will call on me, and I will answer him. I will be with him in trouble. I will deliver him, and honor him. 

###### v16 
I will satisfy him with long life, and show him my salvation."

***
[[Ps-90|← Psalm 90]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-92|Psalm 92 →]]
