# Psalm 92

[[Ps-91|← Psalm 91]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-93|Psalm 93 →]]
***



###### v1 
It is a good thing to give thanks to Yahweh, to sing praises to your name, Most High, 

###### v2 
to proclaim your loving kindness in the morning, and your faithfulness every night, 

###### v3 
with the ten-stringed lute, with the harp, and with the melody of the lyre. 

###### v4 
For you, Yahweh, have made me glad through your work. I will triumph in the works of your hands. 

###### v5 
How great are your works, Yahweh! Your thoughts are very deep. 

###### v6 
A senseless man doesn't know, neither does a fool understand this: 

###### v7 
though the wicked spring up as the grass, and all the evildoers flourish, they will be destroyed forever. 

###### v8 
But you, Yahweh, are on high forever more. 

###### v9 
For, behold, your enemies, Yahweh, for, behold, your enemies shall perish. All the evildoers will be scattered. 

###### v10 
But you have exalted my horn like that of the wild ox. I am anointed with fresh oil. 

###### v11 
My eye has also seen my enemies. My ears have heard of the wicked enemies who rise up against me. 

###### v12 
The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree. He will grow like a cedar in Lebanon. 

###### v13 
They are planted in Yahweh's house. They will flourish in our God's courts. 

###### v14 
They will still produce fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and green, 

###### v15 
to show that Yahweh is upright. He is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.

***
[[Ps-91|← Psalm 91]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-93|Psalm 93 →]]
