# Psalm 94

[[Ps-93|← Psalm 93]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-95|Psalm 95 →]]
***



###### v1 
Yahweh, you God to whom vengeance belongs, you God to whom vengeance belongs, shine out. 

###### v2 
Rise up, you judge of the earth. Pay back the proud what they deserve. 

###### v3 
Yahweh, how long will the wicked, how long will the wicked triumph? 

###### v4 
They pour out arrogant words. All the evildoers boast. 

###### v5 
They break your people in pieces, Yahweh, and afflict your heritage. 

###### v6 
They kill the widow and the alien, and murder the fatherless. 

###### v7 
They say, "Yah will not see, neither will Jacob's God consider." 

###### v8 
Consider, you senseless among the people; you fools, when will you be wise? 

###### v9 
He who implanted the ear, won't he hear? He who formed the eye, won't he see? 

###### v10 
He who disciplines the nations, won't he punish? He who teaches man knows. 

###### v11 
Yahweh knows the thoughts of man, that they are futile. 

###### v12 
Blessed is the man whom you discipline, Yah, and teach out of your law, 

###### v13 
that you may give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit is dug for the wicked. 

###### v14 
For Yahweh won't reject his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance. 

###### v15 
For judgment will return to righteousness. All the upright in heart shall follow it. 

###### v16 
Who will rise up for me against the wicked? Who will stand up for me against the evildoers? 

###### v17 
Unless Yahweh had been my help, my soul would have soon lived in silence. 

###### v18 
When I said, "My foot is slipping!" Your loving kindness, Yahweh, held me up. 

###### v19 
In the multitude of my thoughts within me, your comforts delight my soul. 

###### v20 
Shall the throne of wickedness have fellowship with you, which brings about mischief by statute? 

###### v21 
They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood. 

###### v22 
But Yahweh has been my high tower, my God, the rock of my refuge. 

###### v23 
He has brought on them their own iniquity, and will cut them off in their own wickedness. Yahweh, our God, will cut them off.

***
[[Ps-93|← Psalm 93]] | [[Psalm]] | [[Ps-95|Psalm 95 →]]
