# 1 Timothy 2

[[1 Tim-01|← 1 Timothy 01]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1 Tim-03|1 Timothy 03 →]]
***



###### v1 
I exhort therefore, first of all, that petitions, prayers, intercessions, and givings of thanks be made for all men: 

###### v2 
for kings and all who are in high places, that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and reverence. 

###### v3 
For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, 

###### v4 
who desires all people to be saved and come to full knowledge of the truth. 

###### v5 
For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, 

###### v6 
who gave himself as a ransom for all, the testimony in its own times, 

###### v7 
to which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle--I am telling the truth in Christ, not lying--a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. 

###### v8 
I desire therefore that the men in every place pray, lifting up holy hands without anger and doubting. 

###### v9 
In the same way, that women also adorn themselves in decent clothing, with modesty and propriety, not just with braided hair, gold, pearls, or expensive clothing, 

###### v10 
but with good works, which is appropriate for women professing godliness. 

###### v11 
Let a woman learn in quietness with full submission. 

###### v12 
But I don't permit a woman to teach, nor to exercise authority over a man, but to be in quietness. 

###### v13 
For Adam was formed first, then Eve. 

###### v14 
Adam wasn't deceived, but the woman, being deceived, has fallen into disobedience; 

###### v15 
but she will be saved through her childbearing, if they continue in faith, love, and sanctification with sobriety.

***
[[1 Tim-01|← 1 Timothy 01]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1 Tim-03|1 Timothy 03 →]]
