# 1 Timothy 3

[[1 Tim-02|← 1 Timothy 02]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1 Tim-04|1 Timothy 04 →]]
***



###### v1 
This is a faithful saying: someone who seeks to be an overseer desires a good work. 

###### v2 
The overseer therefore must be without reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, modest, hospitable, good at teaching; 

###### v3 
not a drinker, not violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous; 

###### v4 
one who rules his own house well, having children in subjection with all reverence; 

###### v5 
(but how could someone who doesn't know how to rule one's own house take care of God's assembly?) 

###### v6 
not a new convert, lest being puffed up he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. 

###### v7 
Moreover he must have good testimony from those who are outside, to avoid falling into reproach and the snare of the devil. 

###### v8 
Servants, in the same way, must be reverent, not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not greedy for money, 

###### v9 
holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. 

###### v10 
Let them also first be tested; then let them serve if they are blameless. 

###### v11 
Their wives in the same way must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, and faithful in all things. 

###### v12 
Let servants be husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well. 

###### v13 
For those who have served well gain for themselves a good standing, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. 

###### v14 
These things I write to you, hoping to come to you shortly; 

###### v15 
but if I wait long, that you may know how men ought to behave themselves in God's house, which is the assembly of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. 

###### v16 
Without controversy, the mystery of godliness is great: God was revealed in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen by angels, preached among the nations, believed on in the world, and received up in glory.

***
[[1 Tim-02|← 1 Timothy 02]] | [[1 Timothy]] | [[1 Tim-04|1 Timothy 04 →]]
