## 8.15. Tcl-8.6.12

The Tcl package contains the Tool Command Language, a robust general-purpose scripting language. The Expect package is written in the Tcl language.

**Approximate build time:**3.4 SBU

**Required disk space:**87 MB

### 8.15.1. Installation of Tcl

This package and the next two (Expect and DejaGNU) are installed to support running the test suites for binutils and GCC and other packages. Installing three packages for testing purposes may seem excessive, but it is very reassuring, if not essential, to know that the most important tools are working properly.

First, unpack the documentation by issuing the following command:

tar -xf ../tcl8.6.12-html.tar.gz --strip-components=1

Prepare Tcl for compilation:

SRCDIR=$(pwd)
cd unix
./configure --prefix=/usr           \
            --mandir=/usr/share/man \
            $([ "$(uname -m)" = x86_64 ] && echo --enable-64bit)

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`$([ "$(uname -m)" = x86_64 ] && echo --enable-64bit)`_

The construct _`$(<shell command>)`_ is replaced by the output of the shell command. Here this output is empty if running on a 32 bit machine, and is _`--enable-64bit`_ if running on a 64 bit machine.

Build the package:

make

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix|/usr/lib|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR|/usr/include|"  \
    -i tclConfig.sh

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix/pkgs/tdbc1.1.3|/usr/lib/tdbc1.1.3|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.3/generic|/usr/include|"    \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.3/library|/usr/lib/tcl8.6|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/tdbc1.1.3|/usr/include|"            \
    -i pkgs/tdbc1.1.3/tdbcConfig.sh

sed -e "s|$SRCDIR/unix/pkgs/itcl4.2.2|/usr/lib/itcl4.2.2|" \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/itcl4.2.2/generic|/usr/include|"    \
    -e "s|$SRCDIR/pkgs/itcl4.2.2|/usr/include|"            \
    -i pkgs/itcl4.2.2/itclConfig.sh

unset SRCDIR

The various “sed” instructions after the “make” command removes references to the build directory from the configuration files and replaces them with the install directory. This is not mandatory for the remainder of LFS, but may be needed in case a package built later uses Tcl.

To test the results, issue:

make test

Install the package:

make install

Make the installed library writable so debugging symbols can be removed later:

chmod -v u+w /usr/lib/libtcl8.6.so

Install Tcl's headers. The next package, Expect, requires them.

make install-private-headers

Now make a necessary symbolic link:

ln -sfv tclsh8.6 /usr/bin/tclsh

Rename a man page that conflicts with a Perl man page:

mv /usr/share/man/man3/{Thread,Tcl_Thread}.3

If you downloaded the optional documentation, install it by issuing the following commands:

mkdir -v -p /usr/share/doc/tcl-8.6.12
cp -v -r  ../html/* /usr/share/doc/tcl-8.6.12

### 8.15.2. Contents of Tcl

**Installed programs:**tclsh (link to tclsh8.6) and tclsh8.6

**Installed library:**libtcl8.6.so and libtclstub8.6.a

#### Short Descriptions

**tclsh8.6**

The Tcl command shell

**tclsh**

A link to tclsh8.6

`libtcl8.6.so`

The Tcl library

`libtclstub8.6.a`

The Tcl Stub library