## 8.39. Inetutils-2.2

The Inetutils package contains programs for basic networking.

**Approximate build time:**0.3 SBU

**Required disk space:**30 MB

### 8.39.1. Installation of Inetutils

Prepare Inetutils for compilation:

./configure --prefix=/usr        \
            --bindir=/usr/bin    \
            --localstatedir=/var \
            --disable-logger     \
            --disable-whois      \
            --disable-rcp        \
            --disable-rexec      \
            --disable-rlogin     \
            --disable-rsh        \
            --disable-servers

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`--disable-logger`_

This option prevents Inetutils from installing the **logger** program, which is used by scripts to pass messages to the System Log Daemon. Do not install it because Util-linux installs a more recent version.

_`--disable-whois`_

This option disables the building of the Inetutils **whois** client, which is out of date. Instructions for a better **whois** client are in the BLFS book.

_`--disable-r*`_

These parameters disable building obsolete programs that should not be used due to security issues. The functions provided by these programs can be provided by the openssh package in the BLFS book.

_`--disable-servers`_

This disables the installation of the various network servers included as part of the Inetutils package. These servers are deemed not appropriate in a basic LFS system. Some are insecure by nature and are only considered safe on trusted networks. Note that better replacements are available for many of these servers.

Compile the package:

make

To test the results, issue:

make check

Install the package:

make install

Move a program to the proper location:

mv -v /usr/{,s}bin/ifconfig

### 8.39.2. Contents of Inetutils

**Installed programs:**dnsdomainname, ftp, ifconfig, hostname, ping, ping6, talk, telnet, tftp, and traceroute

#### Short Descriptions

**dnsdomainname**

Show the system's DNS domain name

**ftp**

Is the file transfer protocol program

**hostname**

Reports or sets the name of the host

**ifconfig**

Manages network interfaces

**ping**

Sends echo-request packets and reports how long the replies take

**ping6**

A version of **ping** for IPv6 networks

**talk**

Is used to chat with another user

**telnet**

An interface to the TELNET protocol

**tftp**

A trivial file transfer program

**traceroute**

Traces the route your packets take from the host you are working on to another host on a network, showing all the intermediate hops (gateways) along the way