## 8.46. OpenSSL-3.0.1

The OpenSSL package contains management tools and libraries relating to cryptography. These are useful for providing cryptographic functions to other packages, such as OpenSSH, email applications, and web browsers (for accessing HTTPS sites).

**Approximate build time:**5.4 SBU

**Required disk space:**474 MB

### 8.46.1. Installation of OpenSSL

Prepare OpenSSL for compilation:

./config --prefix=/usr         \
         --openssldir=/etc/ssl \
         --libdir=lib          \
         shared                \
         zlib-dynamic

Compile the package:

make

To test the results, issue:

make test

One test, 30-test_afalg.t, is known to fail on some kernel configurations (depending on inconsistent values of CONFIG_CRYPTO_USER_API* settings.) If it fails, it can safely be ignored.

Install the package:

sed -i '/INSTALL_LIBS/s/libcrypto.a libssl.a//' Makefile
make MANSUFFIX=ssl install

Add the version to the documentation directory name, to be consistent with other packages:

mv -v /usr/share/doc/openssl /usr/share/doc/openssl-3.0.1

If desired, install some additional documentation:

cp -vfr doc/* /usr/share/doc/openssl-3.0.1

### Note

You should update OpenSSL when a new version which fixes vulnerabilities is announced. The releases run in series, with a letter for each release after the initial release (e.g. 1.1.1, 1.1.1a, 1.1.1b, etc). Because LFS installs only the shared libraries, there is no need to recompile packages which link to `libcrypto.so` or `libssl.so` _when upgrading in the same series._

However, any running programs linked to those libraries need to be stopped and restarted. Read the related entries in [Section 8.2.1, “Upgrade Issues”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#pkgmgmt-upgrade-issues "8.2.1. Upgrade Issues") for details.

### 8.46.2. Contents of OpenSSL

**Installed programs:**c_rehash and openssl

**Installed libraries:**libcrypto.so and libssl.so

**Installed directories:**/etc/ssl, /usr/include/openssl, /usr/lib/engines and /usr/share/doc/openssl-3.0.1

#### Short Descriptions

**c_rehash**

is a Perl script that scans all files in a directory and adds symbolic links to their hash values

**openssl**

is a command-line tool for using the various cryptography functions of OpenSSL's crypto library from the shell. It can be used for various functions which are documented in **man 1 openssl**

`libcrypto.so`

implements a wide range of cryptographic algorithms used in various Internet standards. The services provided by this library are used by the OpenSSL implementations of SSL, TLS and S/MIME, and they have also been used to implement OpenSSH, OpenPGP, and other cryptographic standards

`libssl.so`

implements the Transport Layer Security (TLS v1) protocol. It provides a rich API, documentation on which can be found by running **man 3 ssl**