## 8.5. Glibc-2.35

The Glibc package contains the main C library. This library provides the basic routines for allocating memory, searching directories, opening and closing files, reading and writing files, string handling, pattern matching, arithmetic, and so on.

**Approximate build time:**24 SBU

**Required disk space:**2.8 GB

### 8.5.1. Installation of Glibc

Some of the Glibc programs use the non-FHS compliant `/var/db` directory to store their runtime data. Apply the following patch to make such programs store their runtime data in the FHS-compliant locations:

patch -Np1 -i ../glibc-2.35-fhs-1.patch

The Glibc documentation recommends building Glibc in a dedicated build directory:

mkdir -v build
cd       build

Ensure that the **ldconfig** and **sln** utilites will be installed into `/usr/sbin`:

echo "rootsbindir=/usr/sbin" > configparms

Prepare Glibc for compilation:

../configure --prefix=/usr                            \
             --disable-werror                         \
             --enable-kernel=3.2                      \
             --enable-stack-protector=strong          \
             --with-headers=/usr/include              \
             libc_cv_slibdir=/usr/lib

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`--disable-werror`_

This option disables the -Werror option passed to GCC. This is necessary for running the test suite.

_`--enable-kernel=3.2`_

This option tells the build system that this glibc may be used with kernels as old as 3.2. This means generating workarounds in case a system call introduced in a later version cannot be used.

_`--enable-stack-protector=strong`_

This option increases system security by adding extra code to check for buffer overflows, such as stack smashing attacks.

_`--with-headers=/usr/include`_

This option tells the build system where to find the kernel API headers.

_`libc_cv_slibdir=/usr/lib`_

This variable sets the correct library for all systems. We do not want lib64 to be used.

Compile the package:

make

### Important

In this section, the test suite for Glibc is considered critical. Do not skip it under any circumstance.

Generally a few tests do not pass. The test failures listed below are usually safe to ignore.

make check

You may see some test failures. The Glibc test suite is somewhat dependent on the host system. A few failures out of over 4200 tests can generally be ignored. This is a list of the most common issues seen for recent versions of LFS:

-   _io/tst-lchmod_ is known to fail in the LFS chroot environment.
    
-   _misc/tst-ttyname_ is known to fail in the LFS chroot environment.
    
-   The _nss/tst-nss-files-hosts-multi_ test is known to fail if the system has no non-loopback IP addresses.
    

Though it is a harmless message, the install stage of Glibc will complain about the absence of `/etc/ld.so.conf`. Prevent this warning with:

touch /etc/ld.so.conf

Fix the Makefile to skip an unneeded sanity check that fails in the LFS partial environment:

sed '/test-installation/s@$(PERL)@echo not running@' -i ../Makefile

Install the package:

make install

Fix hardcoded path to the executable loader in **ldd** script:

sed '/RTLDLIST=/s@/usr@@g' -i /usr/bin/ldd

Install the configuration file and runtime directory for **nscd**:

cp -v ../nscd/nscd.conf /etc/nscd.conf
mkdir -pv /var/cache/nscd

Next, install the locales that can make the system respond in a different language. None of the locales are required, but if some of them are missing, the test suites of future packages would skip important testcases.

Individual locales can be installed using the **localedef** program. E.g., the second **localedef** command below combines the `/usr/share/i18n/locales/cs_CZ` charset-independent locale definition with the `/usr/share/i18n/charmaps/UTF-8.gz` charmap definition and appends the result to the `/usr/lib/locale/locale-archive` file. The following instructions will install the minimum set of locales necessary for the optimal coverage of tests:

mkdir -pv /usr/lib/locale
localedef -i POSIX -f UTF-8 C.UTF-8 2> /dev/null || true
localedef -i cs_CZ -f UTF-8 cs_CZ.UTF-8
localedef -i de_DE -f ISO-8859-1 de_DE
localedef -i de_DE@euro -f ISO-8859-15 de_DE@euro
localedef -i de_DE -f UTF-8 de_DE.UTF-8
localedef -i el_GR -f ISO-8859-7 el_GR
localedef -i en_GB -f ISO-8859-1 en_GB
localedef -i en_GB -f UTF-8 en_GB.UTF-8
localedef -i en_HK -f ISO-8859-1 en_HK
localedef -i en_PH -f ISO-8859-1 en_PH
localedef -i en_US -f ISO-8859-1 en_US
localedef -i en_US -f UTF-8 en_US.UTF-8
localedef -i es_ES -f ISO-8859-15 es_ES@euro
localedef -i es_MX -f ISO-8859-1 es_MX
localedef -i fa_IR -f UTF-8 fa_IR
localedef -i fr_FR -f ISO-8859-1 fr_FR
localedef -i fr_FR@euro -f ISO-8859-15 fr_FR@euro
localedef -i fr_FR -f UTF-8 fr_FR.UTF-8
localedef -i is_IS -f ISO-8859-1 is_IS
localedef -i is_IS -f UTF-8 is_IS.UTF-8
localedef -i it_IT -f ISO-8859-1 it_IT
localedef -i it_IT -f ISO-8859-15 it_IT@euro
localedef -i it_IT -f UTF-8 it_IT.UTF-8
localedef -i ja_JP -f EUC-JP ja_JP
localedef -i ja_JP -f SHIFT_JIS ja_JP.SJIS 2> /dev/null || true
localedef -i ja_JP -f UTF-8 ja_JP.UTF-8
localedef -i nl_NL@euro -f ISO-8859-15 nl_NL@euro
localedef -i ru_RU -f KOI8-R ru_RU.KOI8-R
localedef -i ru_RU -f UTF-8 ru_RU.UTF-8
localedef -i se_NO -f UTF-8 se_NO.UTF-8
localedef -i ta_IN -f UTF-8 ta_IN.UTF-8
localedef -i tr_TR -f UTF-8 tr_TR.UTF-8
localedef -i zh_CN -f GB18030 zh_CN.GB18030
localedef -i zh_HK -f BIG5-HKSCS zh_HK.BIG5-HKSCS
localedef -i zh_TW -f UTF-8 zh_TW.UTF-8

In addition, install the locale for your own country, language and character set.

Alternatively, install all locales listed in the `glibc-2.35/localedata/SUPPORTED` file (it includes every locale listed above and many more) at once with the following time-consuming command:

make localedata/install-locales

Then use the **localedef** command to create and install locales not listed in the `glibc-2.35/localedata/SUPPORTED` file when you need them. For instance, the following two locales are needed for some tests later in this chapter:

localedef -i POSIX -f UTF-8 C.UTF-8 2> /dev/null || true
localedef -i ja_JP -f SHIFT_JIS ja_JP.SJIS 2> /dev/null || true

### Note

Glibc now uses libidn2 when resolving internationalized domain names. This is a run time dependency. If this capability is needed, the instructions for installing libidn2 are in the [BLFS libidn2 page](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/general/libidn2.html).

### 8.5.2. Configuring Glibc

#### 8.5.2.1. Adding nsswitch.conf

The `/etc/nsswitch.conf` file needs to be created because the Glibc defaults do not work well in a networked environment.

Create a new file `/etc/nsswitch.conf` by running the following:

cat > /etc/nsswitch.conf << "EOF"
`# Begin /etc/nsswitch.conf

passwd: files
group: files
shadow: files

hosts: files dns
networks: files

protocols: files
services: files
ethers: files
rpc: files

# End /etc/nsswitch.conf`
EOF

#### 8.5.2.2. Adding time zone data

Install and set up the time zone data with the following:

tar -xf ../../tzdata2021e.tar.gz

ZONEINFO=/usr/share/zoneinfo
mkdir -pv $ZONEINFO/{posix,right}

for tz in etcetera southamerica northamerica europe africa antarctica  \
          asia australasia backward; do
    zic -L /dev/null   -d $ZONEINFO       ${tz}
    zic -L /dev/null   -d $ZONEINFO/posix ${tz}
    zic -L leapseconds -d $ZONEINFO/right ${tz}
done

cp -v zone.tab zone1970.tab iso3166.tab $ZONEINFO
zic -d $ZONEINFO -p America/New_York
unset ZONEINFO

**The meaning of the zic commands:**

_`zic -L /dev/null ...`_

This creates posix time zones without any leap seconds. It is conventional to put these in both `zoneinfo` and `zoneinfo/posix`. It is necessary to put the POSIX time zones in `zoneinfo`, otherwise various test-suites will report errors. On an embedded system, where space is tight and you do not intend to ever update the time zones, you could save 1.9 MB by not using the `posix` directory, but some applications or test-suites might produce some failures.

_`zic -L leapseconds ...`_

This creates right time zones, including leap seconds. On an embedded system, where space is tight and you do not intend to ever update the time zones, or care about the correct time, you could save 1.9MB by omitting the `right` directory.

_`zic ... -p ...`_

This creates the `posixrules` file. We use New York because POSIX requires the daylight savings time rules to be in accordance with US rules.

One way to determine the local time zone is to run the following script:

tzselect

After answering a few questions about the location, the script will output the name of the time zone (e.g., _America/Edmonton_). There are also some other possible time zones listed in `/usr/share/zoneinfo` such as _Canada/Eastern_ or _EST5EDT_ that are not identified by the script but can be used.

Then create the `/etc/localtime` file by running:

ln -sfv /usr/share/zoneinfo/_`<xxx>`_ /etc/localtime

Replace _`<xxx>`_ with the name of the time zone selected (e.g., Canada/Eastern).

#### 8.5.2.3. Configuring the Dynamic Loader

By default, the dynamic loader (`/lib/ld-linux.so.2`) searches through `/lib` and `/usr/lib` for dynamic libraries that are needed by programs as they are run. However, if there are libraries in directories other than `/lib` and `/usr/lib`, these need to be added to the `/etc/ld.so.conf` file in order for the dynamic loader to find them. Two directories that are commonly known to contain additional libraries are `/usr/local/lib` and `/opt/lib`, so add those directories to the dynamic loader's search path.

Create a new file `/etc/ld.so.conf` by running the following:

cat > /etc/ld.so.conf << "EOF"
`# Begin /etc/ld.so.conf
/usr/local/lib
/opt/lib` 
EOF

If desired, the dynamic loader can also search a directory and include the contents of files found there. Generally the files in this include directory are one line specifying the desired library path. To add this capability run the following commands:

cat >> /etc/ld.so.conf << "EOF"
`# Add an include directory
include /etc/ld.so.conf.d/*.conf` 
EOF
mkdir -pv /etc/ld.so.conf.d

### 8.5.3. Contents of Glibc

**Installed programs:**gencat, getconf, getent, iconv, iconvconfig, ldconfig, ldd, lddlibc4, ld.so (symlink to ld-linux-x86-64.so.2 or ld-linux.so.2), locale, localedef, makedb, mtrace, nscd, pcprofiledump, pldd, sln, sotruss, sprof, tzselect, xtrace, zdump, and zic

**Installed libraries:**ld-linux-x86-64.so.2, ld-linux.so.2, libBrokenLocale.{a,so}, libanl.{a,so}, libc.{a,so}, libc_nonshared.a, libc_malloc_debug.so, libcrypt.{a,so}, libdl.{a,so.2}, libg.a, libm.{a,so}, libmcheck.a, libmemusage.so, libmvec.{a,so}, libnsl.so.1, libnss_compat.so, libnss_dns.so, libnss_files.so, libnss_hesiod.so, libpcprofile.so, libpthread.{a,so.0}, libresolv.{a,so}, librt.{a,so.1}, libthread_db.so, and libutil.{a,so.1}

**Installed directories:**/usr/include/arpa, /usr/include/bits, /usr/include/gnu, /usr/include/net, /usr/include/netash, /usr/include/netatalk, /usr/include/netax25, /usr/include/neteconet, /usr/include/netinet, /usr/include/netipx, /usr/include/netiucv, /usr/include/netpacket, /usr/include/netrom, /usr/include/netrose, /usr/include/nfs, /usr/include/protocols, /usr/include/rpc, /usr/include/sys, /usr/lib/audit, /usr/lib/gconv, /usr/lib/locale, /usr/libexec/getconf, /usr/share/i18n, /usr/share/zoneinfo, /var/cache/nscd, and /var/lib/nss_db

#### Short Descriptions

**gencat**

Generates message catalogues

**getconf**

Displays the system configuration values for file system specific variables

**getent**

Gets entries from an administrative database

**iconv**

Performs character set conversion

**iconvconfig**

Creates fastloading **iconv** module configuration files

**ldconfig**

Configures the dynamic linker runtime bindings

**ldd**

Reports which shared libraries are required by each given program or shared library

**lddlibc4**

Assists **ldd** with object files. It does not exist on newer architectures like x86_64

**locale**

Prints various information about the current locale

**localedef**

Compiles locale specifications

**makedb**

Creates a simple database from textual input

**mtrace**

Reads and interprets a memory trace file and displays a summary in human-readable format

**nscd**

A daemon that provides a cache for the most common name service requests

**pcprofiledump**

Dump information generated by PC profiling

**pldd**

Lists dynamic shared objects used by running processes

**sln**

A statically linked **ln** program

**sotruss**

Traces shared library procedure calls of a specified command

**sprof**

Reads and displays shared object profiling data

**tzselect**

Asks the user about the location of the system and reports the corresponding time zone description

**xtrace**

Traces the execution of a program by printing the currently executed function

**zdump**

The time zone dumper

**zic**

The time zone compiler

`ld-*.so`

The helper program for shared library executables

`libBrokenLocale`

Used internally by Glibc as a gross hack to get broken programs (e.g., some Motif applications) running. See comments in `glibc-2.35/locale/broken_cur_max.c` for more information

`libanl`

An asynchronous name lookup library

`libc`

The main C library

`libc_malloc_debug`

Turns on memory allocation checking when preloaded

`libcrypt`

The cryptography library

`libdl`

Dummy library containing no functions. Previously was the dynamic linking interface library, whose functions are now in `libc`

`libg`

Dummy library containing no functions. Previously was a runtime library for **g++**

`libm`

The mathematical library

`libmvec`

The vector math library, linked in as needed when `libm` is used

`libmcheck`

Turns on memory allocation checking when linked to

`libmemusage`

Used by **memusage** to help collect information about the memory usage of a program

`libnsl`

The network services library, now deprecated

`libnss_*`

The Name Service Switch modules, containing functions for resolving host names, user names, group names, aliases, services, protocols, etc. Loaded by `libc` according to the configuration in `/etc/nsswitch.conf`

`libpcprofile`

Can be preloaded to PC profile an executable

`libpthread`

Dummy library containing no functions. Previously contained functions providing most of the interfaces specified by the POSIX.1b Realtime Extension, now the functions are in `libc`

`libresolv`

Contains functions for creating, sending, and interpreting packets to the Internet domain name servers

`librt`

Contains functions providing most of the interfaces specified by the POSIX.1b Realtime Extension

`libthread_db`

Contains functions useful for building debuggers for multi-threaded programs

`libutil`

Dummy library containing no functions. Previously contained code for “standard” functions used in many different Unix utilities. These functions are now in `libc`