## 8.50. Python-3.10.2

The Python 3 package contains the Python development environment. It is useful for object-oriented programming, writing scripts, prototyping large programs, or developing entire applications.

**Approximate build time:**4.3 SBU

**Required disk space:**275 MB

### 8.50.1. Installation of Python 3

Prepare Python for compilation:

./configure --prefix=/usr        \
            --enable-shared      \
            --with-system-expat  \
            --with-system-ffi    \
            --with-ensurepip=yes \
            --enable-optimizations

**The meaning of the configure options:**

_`--with-system-expat`_

This switch enables linking against system version of Expat.

_`--with-system-ffi`_

This switch enables linking against system version of libffi.

_`--with-ensurepip=yes`_

This switch enables building **pip** and **setuptools** packaging programs.

_`--enable-optimizations`_

This switch enables stable, but expensive, optimizations.

Compile the package:

make

Running the tests at this point is not recommended. The tests are known to hang indefinitely in the partial LFS environment. If desired, the tests can be rerun at the end of this chapter or when Python 3 is reinstalled in BLFS. To run the tests anyway, issue **make test**.

Install the package:

make install

If desired, install the preformatted documentation:

install -v -dm755 /usr/share/doc/python-3.10.2/html

tar --strip-components=1  \
    --no-same-owner       \
    --no-same-permissions \
    -C /usr/share/doc/python-3.10.2/html \
    -xvf ../python-3.10.2-docs-html.tar.bz2

**The meaning of the documentation install commands:**

`--no-same-owner` and `--no-same-permissions`

Ensure the installed files have the correct ownership and permissions. Without these options, using tar will install the package files with the upstream creator's values.

### 8.50.2. Contents of Python 3

**Installed Programs:**2to3, idle3, pip3, pydoc3, python3, and python3-config

**Installed Library:**libpython3.10.so and libpython3.so

**Installed Directories:**/usr/include/python3.10, /usr/lib/python3, and /usr/share/doc/python-3.10.2

#### Short Descriptions

**2to3**

is a Python program that reads Python 2.x source code and applies a series of fixes to transform it into valid Python 3.x code

**idle3**

is a wrapper script that opens a Python aware GUI editor. For this script to run, you must have installed Tk before Python so that the Tkinter Python module is built

**pip3**

The package installer for Python. You can use pip to install packages from Python Package Index and other indexes

**pydoc3**

is the Python documentation tool

**python3**

is an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language