## 8.51. Ninja-1.10.2

Ninja is a small build system with a focus on speed.

**Approximate build time:**0.2 SBU

**Required disk space:**64 MB

### Tip

This section is not strictly required for LFS if not using systemd. On the other hand, ninja associated to meson makes a powerful build system combination, which is expected to be used more and more often. It is required for several packages in [the BLFS book](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/).

### 8.51.1. Installation of Ninja

When run, ninja normally runs a maximum number of processes in parallel. By default this is the number of cores on the system plus two. In some cases this can overheat a CPU or run a system out of memory. If run from the command line, passing a -jN parameter will limit the number of parallel processes, but some packages embed the execution of ninja and do not pass a -j parameter.

Using the _optional_ procedure below allows a user to limit the number of parallel processes via an environment variable, NINJAJOBS. **For example**, setting:

export NINJAJOBS=4

will limit ninja to four parallel processes.

If desired, add the capability to use the environment variable NINJAJOBS by running:

sed -i '/int Guess/a \
  int   j = 0;\
  char* jobs = getenv( "NINJAJOBS" );\
  if ( jobs != NULL ) j = atoi( jobs );\
  if ( j > 0 ) return j;\
' src/ninja.cc

Build Ninja with:

python3 configure.py --bootstrap

**The meaning of the build option:**

_`--bootstrap`_

This parameter forces ninja to rebuild itself for the current system.

To test the results, issue:

./ninja ninja_test
./ninja_test --gtest_filter=-SubprocessTest.SetWithLots

Install the package:

install -vm755 ninja /usr/bin/
install -vDm644 misc/bash-completion /usr/share/bash-completion/completions/ninja
install -vDm644 misc/zsh-completion  /usr/share/zsh/site-functions/_ninja

### 8.51.2. Contents of Ninja

**Installed programs:**ninja

#### Short Descriptions

**ninja**

is the Ninja build system