## 8.68. Vim-8.2.4383

The Vim package contains a powerful text editor.

**Approximate build time:**2.4 SBU

**Required disk space:**206 MB

### Alternatives to Vim

If you prefer another editor—such as Emacs, Joe, or Nano—please refer to [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/postlfs/editors.html](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/postlfs/editors.html) for suggested installation instructions.

### 8.68.1. Installation of Vim

First, change the default location of the `vimrc` configuration file to `/etc`:

echo '#define SYS_VIMRC_FILE "/etc/vimrc"' >> src/feature.h

Prepare vim for compilation:

./configure --prefix=/usr

Compile the package:

make

To prepare the tests, ensure that user `tester` can write to the source tree:

chown -Rv tester .

Now run the tests as user `tester`:

su tester -c "LANG=en_US.UTF-8 make -j1 test" &> vim-test.log

The test suite outputs a lot of binary data to the screen. This can cause issues with the settings of the current terminal. The problem can be avoided by redirecting the output to a log file as shown above. A successful test will result in the words "ALL DONE" in the log file at completion.

Install the package:

make install

Many users are used to using **vi** instead of **vim**. To allow execution of **vim** when users habitually enter **vi**, create a symlink for both the binary and the man page in the provided languages:

ln -sv vim /usr/bin/vi
for L in  /usr/share/man/{,*/}man1/vim.1; do
    ln -sv vim.1 $(dirname $L)/vi.1
done

By default, vim's documentation is installed in `/usr/share/vim`. The following symlink allows the documentation to be accessed via `/usr/share/doc/vim-8.2.4383`, making it consistent with the location of documentation for other packages:

ln -sv ../vim/vim82/doc /usr/share/doc/vim-8.2.4383

If an X Window System is going to be installed on the LFS system, it may be necessary to recompile vim after installing X. Vim comes with a GUI version of the editor that requires X and some additional libraries to be installed. For more information on this process, refer to the vim documentation and the vim installation page in the BLFS book at [https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/postlfs/vim.html](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/blfs/view/11.1/postlfs/vim.html).

### 8.68.2. Configuring Vim

By default, **vim** runs in vi-incompatible mode. This may be new to users who have used other editors in the past. The “nocompatible” setting is included below to highlight the fact that a new behavior is being used. It also reminds those who would change to “compatible” mode that it should be the first setting in the configuration file. This is necessary because it changes other settings, and overrides must come after this setting. Create a default **vim** configuration file by running the following:

cat > /etc/vimrc << "EOF"
`" Begin /etc/vimrc

" Ensure defaults are set before customizing settings, not after
source $VIMRUNTIME/defaults.vim
let skip_defaults_vim=1

set nocompatible
set backspace=2
set mouse=
syntax on
if (&term == "xterm") || (&term == "putty")
  set background=dark
endif

" End /etc/vimrc`
EOF

The _`set nocompatible`_ setting makes **vim** behave in a more useful way (the default) than the vi-compatible manner. Remove the “no” to keep the old **vi** behavior. The _`set backspace=2`_ setting allows backspacing over line breaks, autoindents, and the start of an insert. The _`syntax on`_ parameter enables vim's syntax highlighting. The _`set mouse=`_ setting enables proper pasting of text with the mouse when working in chroot or over a remote connection. Finally, the _if_ statement with the _`set background=dark`_ setting corrects **vim**'s guess about the background color of some terminal emulators. This gives the highlighting a better color scheme for use on the black background of these programs.

Documentation for other available options can be obtained by running the following command:

vim -c ':options'

### Note

By default, vim only installs spell files for the English language. To install spell files for your preferred language, download the `*.spl` and optionally, the `*.sug` files for your language and character encoding from [ftp://ftp.vim.org/pub/vim/runtime/spell/](ftp://ftp.vim.org/pub/vim/runtime/spell/) and save them to `/usr/share/vim/vim82/spell/`.

To use these spell files, some configuration in `/etc/vimrc` is needed, e.g.:

```
set spelllang=en,ru
set spell
```

For more information, see the appropriate README file located at the URL above.

### 8.68.3. Contents of Vim

**Installed programs:**ex (link to vim), rview (link to vim), rvim (link to vim), vi (link to vim), view (link to vim), vim, vimdiff (link to vim), vimtutor, and xxd

**Installed directory:**/usr/share/vim

#### Short Descriptions

**ex**

Starts **vim** in ex mode

**rview**

Is a restricted version of **view**; no shell commands can be started and **view** cannot be suspended

**rvim**

Is a restricted version of **vim**; no shell commands can be started and **vim** cannot be suspended

**vi**

Link to **vim**

**view**

Starts **vim** in read-only mode

**vim**

Is the editor

**vimdiff**

Edits two or three versions of a file with **vim** and shows differences

**vimtutor**

Teaches the basic keys and commands of **vim**

**xxd**

Creates a hex dump of the given file; it can also do the reverse, so it can be used for binary patching