## 6.3. Ncurses-6.3

The Ncurses package contains libraries for terminal-independent handling of character screens.

**Approximate build time:**0.7 SBU

**Required disk space:**50 MB

### 6.3.1. Installation of Ncurses

First, ensure that **gawk** is found first during configuration:

sed -i s/mawk// configure

Then, run the following commands to build the “tic” program on the build host:

mkdir build
pushd build
  ../configure
  make -C include
  make -C progs tic
popd

Prepare Ncurses for compilation:

./configure --prefix=/usr                \
            --host=$LFS_TGT              \
            --build=$(./config.guess)    \
            --mandir=/usr/share/man      \
            --with-manpage-format=normal \
            --with-shared                \
            --without-debug              \
            --without-ada                \
            --without-normal             \
            --disable-stripping          \
            --enable-widec

**The meaning of the new configure options:**

_`--with-manpage-format=normal`_

This prevents Ncurses installing compressed manual pages, which may happen if the host distribution itself has compressed manual pages.

_`--without-ada`_

This ensures that Ncurses does not build support for the Ada compiler which may be present on the host but will not be available once we enter the **chroot** environment.

_`--disable-stripping`_

This switch prevents the building system from stripping the programs using **strip** program from the host. Using host tools on cross-compiled program can cause failure.

_`--enable-widec`_

This switch causes wide-character libraries (e.g., `libncursesw.so.6.3`) to be built instead of normal ones (e.g., `libncurses.so.6.3`). These wide-character libraries are usable in both multibyte and traditional 8-bit locales, while normal libraries work properly only in 8-bit locales. Wide-character and normal libraries are source-compatible, but not binary-compatible.

_`--without-normal`_

This switch disables building and installing most static libraries.

Compile the package:

make

Install the package:

make DESTDIR=$LFS TIC_PATH=$(pwd)/build/progs/tic install
echo "INPUT(-lncursesw)" > $LFS/usr/lib/libncurses.so

**The meaning of the install options:**

_`TIC_PATH=$(pwd)/build/progs/tic`_

We need to pass the path of the just built **tic** able to run on the building machine, so that the terminal database can be created without errors.

**echo "INPUT(-lncursesw)" > $LFS/usr/lib/libncurses.so**

The `libncurses.so` library is needed by a few packages we will build soon. We create this small linker script, as this is what is done in [Chapter 8](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#chapter-building-system "Chapter 8. Installing Basic System Software").

Details on this package are located in [Section 8.28.2, “Contents of Ncurses.”](https://linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/downloads/stable/LFS-BOOK-11.1-NOCHUNKS.html#contents-ncurses "8.28.2. Contents of Ncurses")