# 1 Corinthians 3

[[1 Cor-02|← 1 Corinthians 02]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-04|1 Corinthians 04 →]]
***



###### v1 
Brothers, I couldn't speak to you as to spiritual, but as to fleshly, as to babies in Christ. 

###### v2 
I fed you with milk, not with meat; for you weren't yet ready. Indeed, you aren't ready even now, 

###### v3 
for you are still fleshly. For insofar as there is jealousy, strife, and factions among you, aren't you fleshly, and don't you walk in the ways of men? 

###### v4 
For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," aren't you fleshly? 

###### v5 
Who then is Apollos, and who is Paul, but servants through whom you believed, and each as the Lord gave to him? 

###### v6 
I planted. Apollos watered. But God gave the increase. 

###### v7 
So then neither he who plants is anything, nor he who waters, but God who gives the increase. 

###### v8 
Now he who plants and he who waters are the same, but each will receive his own reward according to his own labor. 

###### v9 
For we are God's fellow workers. You are God's farming, God's building. 

###### v10 
According to the grace of God which was given to me, as a wise master builder I laid a foundation, and another builds on it. But let each man be careful how he builds on it. 

###### v11 
For no one can lay any other foundation than that which has been laid, which is Jesus Christ. 

###### v12 
But if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, costly stones, wood, hay, or stubble, 

###### v13 
each man's work will be revealed. For the Day will declare it, because it is revealed in fire; and the fire itself will test what sort of work each man's work is. 

###### v14 
If any man's work remains which he built on it, he will receive a reward. 

###### v15 
If any man's work is burned, he will suffer loss, but he himself will be saved, but as through fire. 

###### v16 
Don't you know that you are a temple of God, and that God's Spirit lives in you? 

###### v17 
If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him; for God's temple is holy, which you are. 

###### v18 
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone thinks that he is wise among you in this world, let him become a fool, that he may become wise. 

###### v19 
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, "He has taken the wise in their craftiness." 

###### v20 
And again, "The Lord knows the reasoning of the wise, that it is worthless." 

###### v21 
Therefore let no one boast in men. For all things are yours, 

###### v22 
whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come. All are yours, 

###### v23 
and you are Christ's, and Christ is God's.

***
[[1 Cor-02|← 1 Corinthians 02]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-04|1 Corinthians 04 →]]
