# 1 Corinthians 16

[[1 Cor-15|← 1 Corinthians 15]] | [[1 Corinthians]]
***



###### v1 
Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I commanded the assemblies of Galatia, you do likewise. 

###### v2 
On the first day of every week, let each one of you save, as he may prosper, that no collections are made when I come. 

###### v3 
When I arrive, I will send whoever you approve with letters to carry your gracious gift to Jerusalem. 

###### v4 
If it is appropriate for me to go also, they will go with me. 

###### v5 
But I will come to you when I have passed through Macedonia, for I am passing through Macedonia. 

###### v6 
But with you it may be that I will stay, or even winter, that you may send me on my journey wherever I go. 

###### v7 
For I do not wish to see you now in passing, but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord permits. 

###### v8 
But I will stay at Ephesus until Pentecost, 

###### v9 
for a great and effective door has opened to me, and there are many adversaries. 

###### v10 
Now if Timothy comes, see that he is with you without fear, for he does the work of the Lord, as I also do. 

###### v11 
Therefore let no one despise him. But set him forward on his journey in peace, that he may come to me; for I expect him with the brothers. 

###### v12 
Now concerning Apollos, the brother, I strongly urged him to come to you with the brothers; and it was not at all his desire to come now; but he will come when he has an opportunity. 

###### v13 
Watch! Stand firm in the faith! Be courageous! Be strong! 

###### v14 
Let all that you do be done in love. 

###### v15 
Now I beg you, brothers--you know the house of Stephanas, that it is the first fruits of Achaia, and that they have set themselves to serve the saints-- 

###### v16 
that you also be in subjection to such, and to everyone who helps in the work and labors. 

###### v17 
I rejoice at the coming of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus; for that which was lacking on your part, they supplied. 

###### v18 
For they refreshed my spirit and yours. Therefore acknowledge those who are like that. 

###### v19 
The assemblies of Asia greet you. Aquila and Priscilla greet you much in the Lord, together with the assembly that is in their house. 

###### v20 
All the brothers greet you. Greet one another with a holy kiss. 

###### v21 
This greeting is by me, Paul, with my own hand. 

###### v22 
If any man doesn't love the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be cursed. Come, Lord! 

###### v23 
The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. 

###### v24 
My love to all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.

***
[[1 Cor-15|← 1 Corinthians 15]] | [[1 Corinthians]]
