# 1 Corinthians 14

[[1 Cor-13|← 1 Corinthians 13]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-15|1 Corinthians 15 →]]
***



###### v1 
Follow after love and earnestly desire spiritual gifts, but especially that you may prophesy. 

###### v2 
For he who speaks in another language speaks not to men, but to God; for no one understands; but in the Spirit he speaks mysteries. 

###### v3 
But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, exhortation, and consolation. 

###### v4 
He who speaks in another language edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the assembly. 

###### v5 
Now I desire to have you all speak with other languages, but rather that you would prophesy. For he is greater who prophesies than he who speaks with other languages, unless he interprets, that the assembly may be built up. 

###### v6 
But now, brothers, if I come to you speaking with other languages, what would I profit you, unless I speak to you either by way of revelation, or of knowledge, or of prophesying, or of teaching? 

###### v7 
Even things without life, giving a voice, whether pipe or harp, if they didn't give a distinction in the sounds, how would it be known what is piped or harped? 

###### v8 
For if the trumpet gave an uncertain sound, who would prepare himself for war? 

###### v9 
So also you, unless you uttered by the tongue words easy to understand, how would it be known what is spoken? For you would be speaking into the air. 

###### v10 
There are, it may be, so many kinds of languages in the world, and none of them is without meaning. 

###### v11 
If then I don't know the meaning of the language, I would be to him who speaks a foreigner, and he who speaks would be a foreigner to me. 

###### v12 
So also you, since you are zealous for spiritual gifts, seek that you may abound to the building up of the assembly. 

###### v13 
Therefore let him who speaks in another language pray that he may interpret. 

###### v14 
For if I pray in another language, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful. 

###### v15 
What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also. I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also. 

###### v16 
Otherwise if you bless with the spirit, how will he who fills the place of the unlearned say the "Amen" at your giving of thanks, seeing he doesn't know what you say? 

###### v17 
For you most certainly give thanks well, but the other person is not built up. 

###### v18 
I thank my God, I speak with other languages more than you all. 

###### v19 
However in the assembly I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I might instruct others also, than ten thousand words in another language. 

###### v20 
Brothers, don't be children in thoughts, yet in malice be babies, but in thoughts be mature. 

###### v21 
In the law it is written, "By men of strange languages and by the lips of strangers I will speak to this people. They won't even hear me that way, says the Lord." 

###### v22 
Therefore other languages are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to the unbelieving; but prophesying is for a sign, not to the unbelieving, but to those who believe. 

###### v23 
If therefore the whole assembly is assembled together and all speak with other languages, and unlearned or unbelieving people come in, won't they say that you are crazy? 

###### v24 
But if all prophesy, and someone unbelieving or unlearned comes in, he is reproved by all, and he is judged by all. 

###### v25 
And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed. So he will fall down on his face and worship God, declaring that God is among you indeed. 

###### v26 
What is it then, brothers? When you come together, each one of you has a psalm, has a teaching, has a revelation, has another language, or has an interpretation. Let all things be done to build each other up. 

###### v27 
If any man speaks in another language, let it be two, or at the most three, and in turn; and let one interpret. 

###### v28 
But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in the assembly, and let him speak to himself, and to God. 

###### v29 
Let the prophets speak, two or three, and let the others discern. 

###### v30 
But if a revelation is made to another sitting by, let the first keep silent. 

###### v31 
For you all can prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be exhorted. 

###### v32 
The spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets, 

###### v33 
for God is not a God of confusion, but of peace, as in all the assemblies of the saints. 

###### v34 
Let the wives be quiet in the assemblies, for it has not been permitted for them to be talking except in submission, as the law also says, 

###### v35 
if they desire to learn anything. "Let them ask their own husbands at home, for it is shameful for a wife to be talking in the assembly." 

###### v36 
What!? Was it from you that the word of God went out? Or did it come to you alone? 

###### v37 
If any man thinks himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him recognize the things which I write to you, that they are the commandment of the Lord. 

###### v38 
But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant. 

###### v39 
Therefore, brothers, desire earnestly to prophesy, and don't forbid speaking with other languages. 

###### v40 
Let all things be done decently and in order.

***
[[1 Cor-13|← 1 Corinthians 13]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-15|1 Corinthians 15 →]]
