# 1 Corinthians 5

[[1 Cor-04|← 1 Corinthians 04]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-06|1 Corinthians 06 →]]
***



###### v1 
It is actually reported that there is sexual immorality among you, and such sexual immorality as is not even named among the Gentiles, that one has his father's wife. 

###### v2 
You are arrogant, and didn't mourn instead, that he who had done this deed might be removed from among you. 

###### v3 
For I most certainly, as being absent in body but present in spirit, have already, as though I were present, judged him who has done this thing. 

###### v4 
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, you being gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, 

###### v5 
are to deliver such a one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. 

###### v6 
Your boasting is not good. Don't you know that a little yeast leavens the whole lump? 

###### v7 
Purge out the old yeast, that you may be a new lump, even as you are unleavened. For indeed Christ, our Passover, has been sacrificed in our place. 

###### v8 
Therefore let's keep the feast, not with old yeast, neither with the yeast of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. 

###### v9 
I wrote to you in my letter to have no company with sexual sinners; 

###### v10 
yet not at all meaning with the sexual sinners of this world, or with the covetous and extortionists, or with idolaters; for then you would have to leave the world. 

###### v11 
But as it is, I wrote to you not to associate with anyone who is called a brother who is a sexual sinner, or covetous, or an idolater, or a slanderer, or a drunkard, or an extortionist. Don't even eat with such a person. 

###### v12 
For what do I have to do with also judging those who are outside? Don't you judge those who are within? 

###### v13 
But those who are outside, God judges. "Put away the wicked man from among yourselves."

***
[[1 Cor-04|← 1 Corinthians 04]] | [[1 Corinthians]] | [[1 Cor-06|1 Corinthians 06 →]]
