# 2 Corinthians 6

[[2 Cor-05|← 2 Corinthians 05]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2 Cor-07|2 Corinthians 07 →]]
***



###### v1 
Working together, we entreat also that you do not receive the grace of God in vain, 

###### v2 
for he says, "At an acceptable time I listened to you. In a day of salvation I helped you." Behold, now is the acceptable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. 

###### v3 
We give no occasion of stumbling in anything, that our service may not be blamed, 

###### v4 
but in everything commending ourselves, as servants of God, in great endurance, in afflictions, in hardships, in distresses, 

###### v5 
in beatings, in imprisonments, in riots, in labors, in watchings, in fastings; 

###### v6 
in pureness, in knowledge, in perseverance, in kindness, in the Holy Spirit, in sincere love, 

###### v7 
in the word of truth, in the power of God; by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, 

###### v8 
by glory and dishonor, by evil report and good report; as deceivers, and yet true; 

###### v9 
as unknown, and yet well known; as dying, and behold, we live; as punished, and not killed; 

###### v10 
as sorrowful, yet always rejoicing; as poor, yet making many rich; as having nothing, and yet possessing all things. 

###### v11 
Our mouth is open to you, Corinthians. Our heart is enlarged. 

###### v12 
You are not restricted by us, but you are restricted by your own affections. 

###### v13 
Now in return, I speak as to my children: you also open your hearts. 

###### v14 
Don't be unequally yoked with unbelievers, for what fellowship do righteousness and iniquity have? Or what fellowship does light have with darkness? 

###### v15 
What agreement does Christ have with Belial? Or what portion does a believer have with an unbeliever? 

###### v16 
What agreement does a temple of God have with idols? For you are a temple of the living God. Even as God said, "I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God and they will be my people." 

###### v17 
Therefore "'Come out from among them, and be separate,' says the Lord. 'Touch no unclean thing. I will receive you. 

###### v18 
I will be to you a Father. You will be to me sons and daughters,' says the Lord Almighty."

***
[[2 Cor-05|← 2 Corinthians 05]] | [[2 Corinthians]] | [[2 Cor-07|2 Corinthians 07 →]]
