# 1 Peter 5

[[1 Pet-04|← 1 Peter 04]] | [[1 Peter]]
***



###### v1 
Therefore I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and who will also share in the glory that will be revealed: 

###### v2 
Shepherd the flock of God which is among you, exercising the oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily, not for dishonest gain, but willingly; 

###### v3 
not as lording it over those entrusted to you, but making yourselves examples to the flock. 

###### v4 
When the chief Shepherd is revealed, you will receive the crown of glory that doesn't fade away. 

###### v5 
Likewise, you younger ones, be subject to the elder. Yes, all of you clothe yourselves with humility, to subject yourselves to one another; for "God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble." 

###### v6 
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, 

###### v7 
casting all your worries on him, because he cares for you. 

###### v8 
Be sober and self-controlled. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, walks around like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. 

###### v9 
Withstand him steadfast in your faith, knowing that your brothers who are in the world are undergoing the same sufferings. 

###### v10 
But may the God of all grace, who called you to his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a little while, perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. 

###### v11 
To him be the glory and the power forever and ever. Amen. 

###### v12 
Through Silvanus, our faithful brother, as I consider him, I have written to you briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God in which you stand. 

###### v13 
She who is in Babylon, chosen together with you, greets you. So does Mark, my son. 

###### v14 
Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace be to all of you who are in Christ Jesus. Amen.

***
[[1 Pet-04|← 1 Peter 04]] | [[1 Peter]]
