# 1 Peter 3

[[1 Pet-02|← 1 Peter 02]] | [[1 Peter]] | [[1 Pet-04|1 Peter 04 →]]
***



###### v1 
In the same way, wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; so that, even if any don't obey the Word, they may be won by the behavior of their wives without a word, 

###### v2 
seeing your pure behavior in fear. 

###### v3 
Let your beauty be not just the outward adorning of braiding the hair, and of wearing jewels of gold, or of putting on fine clothing; 

###### v4 
but in the hidden person of the heart, in the incorruptible adornment of a gentle and quiet spirit, which is very precious in the sight of God. 

###### v5 
For this is how in the past, the holy women who hoped in God also adorned themselves, being in subjection to their own husbands. 

###### v6 
So Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him lord, whose children you now are, if you do well, and are not put in fear by any terror. 

###### v7 
You husbands, in the same way, live with your wives according to knowledge, giving honor to the woman, as to the weaker vessel, as also being joint heirs of the grace of life, that your prayers may not be hindered. 

###### v8 
Finally, all of you be like-minded, compassionate, loving as brothers, tenderhearted, courteous, 

###### v9 
not rendering evil for evil, or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. 

###### v10 
For, "He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. 

###### v11 
Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. 

###### v12 
For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears open to their prayer; but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil." 

###### v13 
Now who will harm you if you become imitators of that which is good? 

###### v14 
But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you are blessed. "Don't fear what they fear, neither be troubled." 

###### v15 
But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Always be ready to give an answer to everyone who asks you a reason concerning the hope that is in you, with humility and fear, 

###### v16 
having a good conscience. Thus, while you are spoken against as evildoers, they may be disappointed who curse your good way of life in Christ. 

###### v17 
For it is better, if it is God's will, that you suffer for doing well than for doing evil. 

###### v18 
Because Christ also suffered for sins once, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring you to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit, 

###### v19 
in whom he also went and preached to the spirits in prison, 

###### v20 
who before were disobedient, when God waited patiently in the days of Noah, while the ship was being built. In it, few, that is, eight souls, were saved through water. 

###### v21 
This is a symbol of baptism, which now saves you--not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, 

###### v22 
who is at the right hand of God, having gone into heaven, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him.

***
[[1 Pet-02|← 1 Peter 02]] | [[1 Peter]] | [[1 Pet-04|1 Peter 04 →]]
